    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



     EXCERPT:    *  Peripheral neuropathy: Treating physicians should monitor patients for neuropathy and institute dose modifications accordingly (  5.1  ). 
 *  Infusion reactions: If an infusion reaction occurs, the infusion should be interrupted and appropriate medical management instituted. If anaphylaxis occurs, the infusion should be discontinued immediately and appropriate medical management instituted (  5.2  ). 
 *  Neutropenia: Monitor complete blood counts prior to each dose of ADCETRIS. If Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia develops, manage by G-CSF support, dose delays, reductions or discontinuation (  5.3  ). 
 *  Tumor Lysis Syndrome: Patients with rapidly proliferating tumor and high tumor burden are at risk of tumor lysis syndrome and these patients should be monitored closely and appropriate measures taken (  5.4  ). 
 *  Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML): Monitor neurologic function; hold ADCETRIS if PML is suspected and discontinue ADCETRIS if PML is confirmed  (  5.5  ). 
 *  Stevens-Johnson syndrome: If Stevens-Johnson syndrome occurs, discontinue ADCETRIS and administer appropriate medical therapy (  5.6  ). 
 *  Embryo-fetal toxicity: Fetal harm can occur. Pregnant women should be advised of the potential hazard to the fetus (  5.7  ). 
    
 

   5.1 Peripheral Neuropathy



  ADCETRIS treatment causes a peripheral neuropathy that is predominantly sensory. Cases of peripheral motor neuropathy have also been reported. ADCETRIS-induced peripheral neuropathy is cumulative. In the HL and sALCL clinical trials, 54% of patients experienced any grade of neuropathy. Of these patients, 49% had complete resolution, 31% had partial improvement, and 20% had no improvement. Of the patients who reported neuropathy, 51% had residual neuropathy at the time of their last evaluation. Monitor patients for symptoms of neuropathy, such as hypoesthesia, hyperesthesia, paresthesia, discomfort, a burning sensation, neuropathic pain or weakness. Patients experiencing new or worsening peripheral neuropathy may require a delay, change in dose, or discontinuation of ADCETRIS [ see  Dose Modification (2.2)    ].



    5.2 Infusion Reactions



  Infusion-related reactions, including anaphylaxis, have occurred with ADCETRIS. Monitor patients during infusion. If anaphylaxis occurs, immediately and permanently discontinue administration of ADCETRIS and administer appropriate medical therapy. If an infusion-related reaction occurs, the infusion should be interrupted and appropriate medical management instituted. Patients who have experienced a prior infusion-related reaction should be premedicated for subsequent infusions. Premedication may include acetaminophen, an antihistamine and a corticosteroid.



    5.3 Neutropenia



  Complete blood counts should be monitored prior to each dose of ADCETRIS and more frequent monitoring should be considered for patients with Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia. Prolonged (>=1 week) severe neutropenia can occur with ADCETRIS. If Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia develops, manage by G-CSF support, dose delays, reductions, or discontinuations [ see  Dose Modification (      2.2)  ].



    5.4 Tumor Lysis Syndrome



  Tumor lysis syndrome may occur. Patients with rapidly proliferating tumor and high tumor burden may be at increased risk of tumor lysis syndrome. Monitor closely and take appropriate measures.



    5.5 Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy



  JC virus infection resulting in PML and death has been reported in ADCETRIS-treated patients. In addition to ADCETRIS therapy, other possible contributory factors include prior therapies and underlying disease that may cause immunosuppression.



 Consider the diagnosis of PML in any patient presenting with new-onset signs and symptoms of central nervous system abnormalities. Evaluation of PML includes, but is not limited to, consultation with a neurologist, brain MRI, and lumbar puncture or brain biopsy. Hold ADCETRIS dosing for any suspected case of PML and discontinue ADCETRIS dosing if a diagnosis of PML is confirmed.



    5.6 Stevens-Johnson Syndrome



  Stevens-Johnson syndrome has been reported with ADCETRIS. If Stevens-Johnson syndrome occurs, discontinue ADCETRIS and administer appropriate medical therapy.



    5.7 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity



  There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of ADCETRIS in pregnant women. However, based on its mechanism of action and findings in animals, ADCETRIS can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Brentuximab vedotin caused embryo-fetal toxicities, including significantly decreased embryo viability and fetal malformations, in animals at maternal exposures that were similar to human exposures at the recommended doses for patients with HL and sALCL.If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while receiving the drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [ see  Use in Specific Populations (      8.1    )  ].
