    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

   EXCERPT:    *  Mineralocorticoid excess: Use ZYTIGA with caution in patients with a history of cardiovascular disease. The safety of ZYTIGA in patients with LVEF < 50% or NYHA Class III or IV heart failure in Study 1 or LVEF < 50% or NYHA Class II to IV heart failure in Study 2 was not established. Control hypertension and correct hypokalemia before treatment. Monitor blood pressure, serum potassium and symptoms of fluid retention at least monthly. (5.1) 
 *  Adrenocortical insufficiency: Monitor for symptoms and signs of adrenocortical insufficiency. Increased dosage of corticosteroids may be indicated before, during and after stressful situations. (5.2) 
 *  Hepatotoxicity: Increases in liver enzymes have led to drug interruption, dose modification and/or discontinuation. Monitor liver function and modify, interrupt, or discontinue ZYTIGA dosing as recommended. (5.3) 
    
   5.1 Hypertension, Hypokalemia and Fluid Retention Due to Mineralocorticoid Excess

  ZYTIGA may cause hypertension, hypokalemia, and fluid retention as a consequence of increased mineralocorticoid levels resulting from CYP17 inhibition  [seeClinical Pharmacology (12.1)]  . In the two randomized clinical trials, grade 3 to 4 hypertension occurred in 2% of patients, grade 3 to 4 hypokalemia in 4% of patients, and grade 3 to 4 edema in 1% of patients treated with ZYTIGA  [seeAdverse Reactions (6)]  .



 Co-administration of a corticosteroid suppresses adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) drive, resulting in a reduction in the incidence and severity of these adverse reactions. Use caution when treating patients whose underlying medical conditions might be compromised by increases in blood pressure, hypokalemia or fluid retention, e.g., those with heart failure, recent myocardial infarction or ventricular arrhythmia. Use ZYTIGA with caution in patients with a history of cardiovascular disease. The safety of ZYTIGA in patients with left ventricular ejection fraction <50% or New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class III or IV heart failure (in Study 1) or NYHA Class II to IV heart failure (in Study 2) was not established because these patients were excluded from these randomized clinical trials  [seeClinical Studies (14)]  . Monitor patients for hypertension, hypokalemia, and fluid retention at least once a month. Control hypertension and correct hypokalemia before and during treatment with ZYTIGA.



   5.2 Adrenocortical Insufficiency

  Adrenal insufficiency occurred in the two randomized clinical studies in 0.5% of patients taking ZYTIGA and in 0.2% of patients taking placebo. Adrenocortical insufficiency was reported in patients receiving ZYTIGA in combination with prednisone, following interruption of daily steroids and/or with concurrent infection or stress. Use caution and monitor for symptoms and signs of adrenocortical insufficiency, particularly if patients are withdrawn from prednisone, have prednisone dose reductions, or experience unusual stress. Symptoms and signs of adrenocortical insufficiency may be masked by adverse reactions associated with mineralocorticoid excess seen in patients treated with ZYTIGA. If clinically indicated, perform appropriate tests to confirm the diagnosis of adrenocortical insufficiency. Increased dosage of corticosteroids may be indicated before, during and after stressful situations  [seeWarnings and Precautions (5.1)].  



   5.3 Hepatotoxicity

  In the two randomized clinical trials, grade 3 or 4 ALT or AST increases (at least 5* ULN) were reported in 4% of patients who received ZYTIGA, typically during the first 3 months after starting treatment. Patients whose baseline ALT or AST were elevated were more likely to experience liver test elevation than those beginning with normal values. Treatment discontinuation due to liver enzyme increases occurred in 1% of patients taking ZYTIGA. No deaths clearly related to ZYTIGA were reported due to hepatotoxicity events.



 Measure serum transaminases (ALT and AST) and bilirubin levels prior to starting treatment with ZYTIGA, every two weeks for the first three months of treatment and monthly thereafter. In patients with baseline moderate hepatic impairment receiving a reduced ZYTIGA dose of 250 mg, measure ALT, AST, and bilirubin prior to the start of treatment, every week for the first month, every two weeks for the following two months of treatment and monthly thereafter. Promptly measure serum total bilirubin, AST, and ALT if clinical symptoms or signs suggestive of hepatotoxicity develop. Elevations of AST, ALT, or bilirubin from the patient's baseline should prompt more frequent monitoring. If at any time AST or ALT rise above five times the ULN, or the bilirubin rises above three times the ULN, interrupt ZYTIGA treatment and closely monitor liver function.



 Re-treatment with ZYTIGA at a reduced dose level may take place only after return of liver function tests to the patient's baseline or to AST and ALT less than or equal to 2.5* ULN and total bilirubin less than or equal to 1.5* ULN  [seeDosage and Administration (2.2)].  



 The safety of ZYTIGA re-treatment of patients who develop AST or ALT greater than or equal to 20* ULN and/or bilirubin greater than or equal to 10* ULN is unknown.
