    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

   EXCERPT:    *  The potency Units of DYSPORT  (r)  are not interchangeable with other preparations of botulinum toxin products and, therefore, units of biological activity of DYSPORT  (r)  cannot be compared to or converted into units of any other botulinum toxin products (5.1)  
 *  Recommended dose and frequency of administration should not be exceeded (5.4) 
 *  Immediate medical attention may be required in cases of respiratory, speech or swallowing difficulties (5.3) 
 *  Concomitant neuromuscular disorder may exacerbate clinical effects of treatment (5.5) 
 *  DYSPORT   (r)   contains human albumin. There is a risk for transmission of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) however, no cases of transmission of viral diseases or CJD have ever been identified for albumin (5.6) 
    
   5.1 Lack of Interchangeability between Botulinum Toxin Products

  The potency Units of DYSPORT  (r)  are specific to the preparation and assay method utilized. They are not interchangeable with other preparations of botulinum toxin products and, therefore, units of biological activity of DYSPORT  (r)  cannot be compared to or converted into units of any other botulinum toxin products assessed with any other specific assay method [  seeDescription (11)  ].



   5.2 Spread of Toxin Effect

  Post-marketing safety data from DYSPORT    (r)    and other approved botulinum toxins suggest that botulinum toxin effects may, in some cases, be observed beyond the site of local injection. The symptoms are consistent with the mechanism of action of botulinum toxin and may include asthenia, generalized muscle weakness, diplopia, blurred vision, ptosis, dysphagia, dysphonia, dysarthria, urinary incontinence and breathing difficulties. These symptoms have been reported hours to weeks after injection. Swallowing and breathing difficulties can be life threatening and there have been reports of death related to spread of toxin effects. The risk of the symptoms is probably greatest in children treated for spasticity but symptoms can also occur in adults treated for spasticity and other conditions, and particularly in those patients who have underlying conditions that would predispose them to these symptoms. In unapproved uses, including spasticity in children and in approved indications, symptoms consistent with spread of toxin effect have been reported at doses comparable to or lower than the maximum recommended total dose.



   5.3 Dysphagia and Breathing Difficulties

  Treatment with DYSPORT    (r)    and other botulinum toxin products can result in swallowing or breathing difficulties. Patients with pre- existing swallowing or breathing difficulties may be more susceptible to these complications. In most cases, this is a consequence of weakening of muscles in the area of injection that are involved in breathing or swallowing. When distant effects occur, additional respiratory muscles may be involved [  seeWarnings and Precautions (5.2)  ].



 Deaths as a complication of severe dysphagia have been reported after treatment with botulinum toxin. Dysphagia may persist for several weeks, and require use of a feeding tube to maintain adequate nutrition and hydration. Aspiration may result from severe dysphagia and is a particular risk when treating patients in whom swallowing or respiratory function is already compromised.



 Treatment of cervical dystonia with botulinum toxins may weaken neck muscles that serve as accessory muscles of ventilation. This may result in a critical loss of breathing capacity in patients with respiratory disorders who may have become dependent upon these accessory muscles. There have been post-marketing reports of serious breathing difficulties, including respiratory failure.



 Patients treated with botulinum toxin may require immediate medical attention should they develop problems with swallowing, speech or respiratory disorders. These reactions can occur within hours to weeks after injection with botulinum toxin [  seeWarnings and Precautions (5.2),Adverse Reactions (6.1),Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)  ].



   5.4 Facial Anatomy in the Treatment of Glabellar Lines

  Caution should be exercised when administering DYSPORT    (r)    to patients with surgical alterations to the facial anatomy, excessive weakness or atrophy in the target muscle(s), marked facial asymmetry, inflammation at the injection site(s), ptosis, excessive dermatochalasis, deep dermal scarring, thick sebaceous skin [  seeDosage and Administration (2.3  ] or the inability to substantially lessen glabellar lines by physically spreading them apart [  seeClinical Studies (14.2)  ].



 Do not exceed the recommended dosage and frequency of administration of DYSPORT    (r)    . In clinical trials, subjects who received a higher dose of DYSPORT    (r)    had an increased incidence of eyelid ptosis.



   5.5 Pre-existing Neuromuscular Disorders

  Individuals with peripheral motor neuropathic diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or neuromuscular junction disorders (e.g., myasthenia gravis or Lambert-Eaton syndrome) should be monitored particularly closely when given botulinum toxin. Patients with neuromuscular disorders may be at increased risk of clinically significant effects including severe dysphagia and respiratory compromise from typical doses of DYSPORT    (r)    [  seeAdverse Reactions (6.1)  ].



   5.6 Human Albumin

  This product contains albumin, a derivative of human blood. Based on effective donor screening and product manufacturing processes, it carries an extremely remote risk for transmission of viral diseases. A theoretical risk for transmission of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is also considered extremely remote. No cases of transmission of viral diseases or CJD have ever been reported for albumin.



   5.7 Intradermal Immune Reaction

  The possibility of an immune reaction when injected intradermally is unknown. The safety of DYSPORT    (r)    for the treatment of hyperhidrosis has not been established. DYSPORT  (r)  is approved only for intramuscular injection .
