    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

   EXCERPT:    *    Not for acute use: Not for use as a rescue medication. (5.1) 
 *    Paradoxical bronchospasm: Discontinue TUDORZA PRESSAIR and consider other treatments if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs. (5.2) 
 *    Worsening of narrow-angle glaucoma may occur. Use with caution in patients with narrow-angle glaucoma and instruct patients to consult a physician immediately if this occurs. (5.3) 
 *    Worsening of urinary retention may occur. Use with caution in patients with prostatic hyperplasia or bladder-neck obstruction and instruct patients to consult a physician immediately if this occurs. (5.4) 
 *    Immediate hypersensitivity reactions: Discontinue TUDORZA PRESSAIR at once and consider alternatives if immediate hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, bronchospasm, or anaphylaxis, occur. Use with caution in patients with severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins. (5.5) 
    
   5.1 Not for Acute Use

  TUDORZA PRESSAIR is intended as a twice-daily maintenance treatment for COPD and is not indicated for the initial treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm (i.e., rescue therapy).



   5.2 Paradoxical Bronchospasm

  Inhaled medicines, including TUDORZA PRESSAIR, may cause paradoxical bronchospasm. If this occurs, treatment with TUDORZA PRESSAIR should be stopped and other treatments considered.



   5.3 Worsening of Narrow-Angle Glaucoma

  TUDORZA PRESSAIR should be used with caution in patients with narrow-angle glaucoma. Prescribers and patients should be alert for signs and symptoms of acute narrow-angle glaucoma (e.g., eye pain or discomfort, blurred vision, visual halos or colored images in association with red eyes from conjunctival congestion and corneal edema). Instruct patients to consult a physician immediately should any of these signs or symptoms develop.



   5.4 Worsening of Urinary Retention

  TUDORZA PRESSAIR should be used with caution in patients with urinary retention. Prescribers and patients should be alert for signs and symptoms of prostatic hyperplasia or bladder-neck obstruction (e.g., difficulty passing urine, painful urination). Instruct patients to consult a physician immediately should any of these signs or symptoms develop.



   5.5 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions

  Immediate hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema (including swelling of the lips, tongue, or throat), urticaria, rash, bronchospasm, or itching, have occurred after administration of TUDORZA PRESSAIR. If such a reaction occurs, therapy with TUDORZA PRESSAIR should be stopped at once and alternative treatments should be considered. Given the similar structural formula of atropine to aclidinium, patients with a history of hypersensitivity reactions to atropine should be closely monitored for similar hypersensitivity reactions to TUDORZA PRESSAIR. In addition, TUDORZA PRESSAIR should be used with caution in patients with severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins.
