    5  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

   EXCERPT:    *  Diarrhea: Diarrhea may result in dehydration and renal failure. Withhold GILOTRIF for severe and prolonged diarrhea not responsive to anti-diarrheal agents. (2.3,5.1) 
 *  Bullous and Exfoliative Skin Disorders: Severe bullous, blistering, and exfoliating lesions occurred in 0.15% of patients. Discontinue for life-threatening cutaneous reactions. Withhold GILOTRIF for severe and prolonged cutaneous reactions. (2.3,5.2) 
 *  Interstitial lung disease (ILD): Occurs in 1.5% of patients. Withhold GILOTRIF for acute onset or worsening of pulmonary symptoms. Discontinue GILOTRIF if ILD is diagnosed. (2.3,5.3) 
 *  Hepatic toxicity: Fatal hepatic impairment occurs in 0.18% of patients. Monitor with periodic liver testing. Withhold or discontinue GILOTRIF for severe or worsening liver tests. (2.3,5.4) 
 *  Keratitis: Occurs in 0.8% of patients. Withhold GILOTRIF for keratitis evaluation. Withhold or discontinue GILOTRIF for confirmed ulcerative keratitis. (2.3,5.5) 
 *  Embryofetal toxicity: Can cause fetal harm. Advise females of the potential hazard to the fetus and to use highly effective contraception. (5.6) 
    
   5.1 Diarrhea

  Diarrhea has resulted in dehydration with or without renal impairment; some of these cases were fatal. In Study 1, diarrhea occurred in 96% of patients treated with GILOTRIF (n=229), of which 15% was Grade 3 in severity and occurred within the first 6 weeks  [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)].  Renal impairment as a consequence of diarrhea occurred in 6.1% of patients treated with GILOTRIF, out of which 3 (1.3%) were Grade 3.



 For patients who develop prolonged Grade 2 diarrhea lasting more than 48 hours or greater than or equal to Grade 3 diarrhea, withhold GILOTRIF until diarrhea resolves to Grade 1 or less, and resume GILOTRIF with appropriate dose reduction  [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)].  Provide patients with an anti-diarrheal agent (e.g., loperamide) for self-administration at the onset of diarrhea and instruct patients to continue anti-diarrheal therapy until loose bowel movements cease for 12 hours.



   5.2 Bullous and Exfoliative Skin Disorders

  Grade 3 cutaneous reactions characterized by bullous, blistering, and exfoliating lesions occurred in 6 (0.15%) of the 3865 patients who received GILOTRIF across clinical trials  [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)].  In Study 1, the overall incidence of cutaneous reactions consisting of rash, erythema, and acneiform rash was 90%, and the incidence of Grade 3 cutaneous reactions was 16%. In addition, the incidence of Grade 1-3 palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome was 7%. Discontinue GILOTRIF in patients who develop life-threatening bullous, blistering, or exfoliating lesions  [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)].  For patients who develop prolonged Grade 2 cutaneous adverse reactions lasting more than 7 days, intolerable Grade 2, or Grade 3 cutaneous reactions, withhold GILOTRIF until the adverse reaction resolves to Grade 1 or less, and resume GILOTRIF with appropriate dose reduction  [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]  .



   5.3 Interstitial Lung Disease (ILD)

  ILD or ILD-like adverse reactions (e.g., lung infiltration, pneumonitis, acute respiratory distress syndrome, or alveolitis allergic) occurred in 1.5% of the 3865 patients who received GILOTRIF across clinical trials; of these, 0.4% were fatal. The incidence of ILD appeared to be higher in patients of Asian ethnicity (2.1%) as compared to non-Asians (1.2%). In Study 1, the incidence of Grade >=3 ILD was 1.3% and resulted in death in 1% of GILOTRIF-treated patients.



 Withhold GILOTRIF during evaluation of patients with suspected ILD, and discontinue GILOTRIF in patients with confirmed ILD  [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]  .



   5.4 Hepatic Toxicity

  In 3865 patients who received GILOTRIF across clinical trials, 10.1% had liver test abnormalities, of which 7 (0.18%) were fatal. In Study 1, liver test abnormalities of any grade occurred in 17.5% of the patients treated with GILOTRIF.



 Obtain periodic liver testing in patients during treatment with GILOTRIF. Withhold GILOTRIF in patients who develop worsening of liver function  [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]  . In patients who develop severe hepatic impairment while taking GILOTRIF, treatment should be discontinued.



   5.5 Keratitis

  Keratitis, characterized as acute or worsening eye inflammation, lacrimation, light sensitivity, blurred vision, eye pain, and/or red eye occurred in 0.8% of patients treated with GILOTRIF among 3865 patients across clinical trials. Keratitis was reported in 5 (2.2%) patients in Study 1, with Grade 3 in 1 (0.4%). Withhold GILOTRIF during evaluation of patients with suspected keratitis, and if diagnosis of ulcerative keratitis is confirmed, treatment with GILOTRIF should be interrupted or discontinued  [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]  . If keratitis is diagnosed, the benefits and risks of continuing treatment should be carefully considered. GILOTRIF should be used with caution in patients with a history of keratitis, ulcerative keratitis, or severe dry eye  [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]  . Contact lens use is also a risk factor for keratitis and ulceration.



   5.6 Embryofetal Toxicity

  Based on its mechanism of action, GILOTRIF can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Afatinib was embryotoxic and, in animals with maternal toxicity, led to abortions at late gestational stages in rabbits at doses of 5 mg/kg (approximately 0.2 times the human exposure at the recommended dose of 40 mg daily) or greater. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus  [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)].  



 Advise females of reproductive potential to use highly effective contraception during treatment, and for at least 2 weeks after the last dose of GILOTRIF. Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they become pregnant, or if pregnancy is suspected, while taking GILOTRIF  [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1and8.6)].  
