    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

   EXCERPT:    *  Endophthalmitis and retinal detachments may occur following intravitreal injections. Patients should be instructed to report any symptoms suggestive of endophthalmitis or retinal detachment without delay and should be managed appropriately. (5.1) 
 *  Increases in intraocular pressure have been seen within 60 minutes of an intravitreal injection. (5.2) 
 *  There is a potential risk of arterial thromboembolic events following intravitreal use of VEGF inhibitors. (5.3) 
    
   5.1 Endophthalmitis and Retinal Detachments

  Intravitreal injections, including those with EYLEA, have been associated with endophthalmitis and retinal detachments [  seeAdverse Reactions (6.1)  ]. Proper aseptic injection technique must always be used when administering EYLEA. Patients should be instructed to report any symptoms suggestive of endophthalmitis or retinal detachment without delay and should be managed appropriately [  seeDosage and Administration (2.7)andPatient Counseling Information (17)  ].



   5.2 Increase in Intraocular Pressure

  Acute increases in intraocular pressure have been seen within 60 minutes of intravitreal injection, including with EYLEA [  seeAdverse Reactions (6.1)  ]. Sustained increases in intraocular pressure have also been reported after repeated intravitreal dosing with vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitors. Intraocular pressure and the perfusion of the optic nerve head should be monitored and managed appropriately [  seeDosage and Administration (2.7)  ].



   5.3 Thromboembolic Events

    There is a potential risk of arterial thromboembolic events (ATEs) following intravitreal use of VEGF inhibitors, including EYLEA. ATEs are defined as nonfatal stroke, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or vascular death (including deaths of unknown cause). The incidence of reported thromboembolic events in wet AMD studies during the first year was 1.8% (32 out of 1824) in the combined group of patients treated with EYLEA. The incidence in the DME studies from baseline to week 52 was 3.3% (19 out of 578) in the combined group of patients treated with EYLEA compared with 2.8% (8 out of 287) in the control group; from baseline to week 100, the incidence was 6.4% (37 out of 578) in the combined group of patients treated with EYLEA compared with 4.2% (12 out of 287) in the control group. There were no reported thromboembolic events in the patients treated with EYLEA in the first six months of the RVO studies.  
