    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

   EXCERPT:    *     Thyroid C-cell Tumors: See Boxed Warning. (5.1) 
 *     Pancreatitis: Discontinue promptly if suspected. Do not restart if confirmed. Consider other antidiabetic therapies in patients with a history of pancreatitis. (5.2) 
 *     Hypoglycemia: Can occur when used in combination with insulin secretagogues (e.g., sulfonylureas) or insulin. Consider lowering sulfonylurea or insulin dosage when starting TANZEUM. (5.3) 
 *     Hypersensitivity Reactions: Discontinue TANZEUM if suspected. Monitor and treat promptly per standard of care until signs and symptoms resolve. (5.4) 
 *     Renal Impairment: Monitor renal function in patients with renal impairment reporting severe adverse gastrointestinal reactions. (5.5) 
 *     Macrovascular Outcomes: There have been no clinical trials establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with TANZEUM or any other antidiabetic drug. (5.6) 
    
   5.1 Risk of Thyroid C-cell Tumors

    Carcinogenicity of albiglutide could not be assessed in rodents due to the rapid development of drug-clearing, anti-drug antibodies  [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]  . Other GLP-1 receptor agonists have caused dose-related and treatment-duration-dependent thyroid C-cell tumors (adenomas or carcinomas) in rodents. Human relevance of GLP-1 receptor agonist induced C-cell tumors in rodents has not been determined. It is unknown whether TANZEUM causes thyroid C-cell tumors, including MTC, in humans  [see Boxed Warning, Contraindications (4.1)]  .  



   Across 8 Phase III clinical trials  [see Clinical Studies (14)]  , MTC was diagnosed in 1 patient receiving TANZEUM and 1 patient receiving placebo. Both patients had markedly elevated serum calcitonin levels at baseline. Cases of MTC in patients treated with liraglutide, another GLP-1 receptor agonist, have been reported in the postmarketing period; the data in these reports are insufficient to establish or exclude a causal relationship between MTC and GLP-1 receptor agonist use in humans.  



   TANZEUM is contraindicated in patients with a personal or family history of MTC or in patients with MEN 2. Counsel patients regarding the potential risk for MTC with the use of TANZEUM and inform them of symptoms of thyroid tumors (e.g., a mass in the neck, dysphagia, dyspnea, or persistent hoarseness).  



   Routine monitoring of serum calcitonin or using thyroid ultrasound is of uncertain value for early detection of MTC in patients treated with TANZEUM. Such monitoring may increase the risk of unnecessary procedures, due to the low specificity of serum calcitonin testing for MTC and a high background incidence of thyroid disease. Significantly elevated serum calcitonin may indicate MTC and patients with MTC usually have calcitonin values >50 ng/L. If serum calcitonin is measured and found to be elevated, the patient should be further evaluated. Patients with thyroid nodules noted on physical examination or neck imaging should also be further evaluated.  



   5.2 Acute Pancreatitis

  In clinical trials, acute pancreatitis has been reported in association with TANZEUM.



 Across 8 Phase III clinical trials  [see Clinical Studies (14)]  , pancreatitis adjudicated as likely related to therapy occurred more frequently in patients receiving TANZEUM (6 of 2,365 [0.3%]) than in patients receiving placebo (0 of 468 [0%]) or active comparators (2 of 2,065 [0.1%]).



 After initiation of TANZEUM, observe patients carefully for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis (including persistent severe abdominal pain, sometimes radiating to the back and which may or may not be accompanied by vomiting). If pancreatitis is suspected, promptly discontinue TANZEUM. If pancreatitis is confirmed, TANZEUM should not be restarted.



 TANZEUM has not been studied in patients with a history of pancreatitis to determine whether these patients are at increased risk for pancreatitis. Consider other antidiabetic therapies in patients with a history of pancreatitis.



   5.3 Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use of Insulin Secretagogues or Insulin

  The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when TANZEUM is used in combination with insulin secretagogues (e.g., sulfonylureas) or insulin. Therefore, patients may require a lower dose of sulfonylurea or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia in this setting  [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Adverse Reactions (6.1)]  .



   5.4 Hypersensitivity Reactions

  Across 8 Phase III clinical trials  [see Clinical Studies (14)]  , a serious hypersensitivity reaction with pruritus, rash, and dyspnea occurred in a patient treated with TANZEUM. If hypersensitivity reactions occur, discontinue use of TANZEUM; treat promptly per standard of care and monitor until signs and symptoms resolve  [see Contraindications (4.2)]  .



   5.5 Renal Impairment

  In patients treated with GLP-1 receptor agonists, there have been postmarketing reports of acute renal failure and worsening of chronic renal failure, which may sometimes require hemodialysis. Some of these events were reported in patients without known underlying renal disease. A majority of reported events occurred in patients who had experienced nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or dehydration. In a trial of TANZEUM in patients with renal impairment  [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]  , the frequency of such gastrointestinal reactions increased as renal function declined  [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]  . Because these reactions may worsen renal function, use caution when initiating or escalating doses of TANZEUM in patients with renal impairment  [see Dosage and Administration (2.3), Use in Specific Populations (8.6)].  



   5.6 Macrovascular Outcomes

  There have been no clinical trials establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with TANZEUM or any other antidiabetic drug.
