    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

   EXCERPT:    *   Anaphylaxis and Hypersensitivity Reactions: Life-threatening anaphylaxis and hypersensitivity reactions have been observed in some patients during and after treatment with alglucosidase alfa. Ensure that appropriate medical support measures, including cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment, are readily available. If anaphylaxis or severe hypersensitivity reactions occur, immediately discontinue infusion and initiate appropriate medical treatment (5.1). 
 *   Immune-Mediated Reactions: Monitor patients for the development of systemic immune-mediated reactions involving skin and other organs (5.2). 
 *   Risk of Acute Cardiorespiratory Failure: Patients with compromised cardiac or respiratory function may be at risk of acute cardiorespiratory failure. Caution should be exercised when administering alglucosidase alfa to patients susceptible to fluid volume overload. Appropriate medical support and monitoring measures should be available during infusion (5.3). 
 *   Risk of Cardiac Arrhythmia and Sudden Cardiac Death during General Anesthesia for Central Venous Catheter Placement: Caution should be used when administering general anesthesia for the placement of a central venous catheter intended for alglucosidase alfa infusion (5.4). 
    
   5.1 Anaphylaxis and Hypersensitivity Reactions

    Anaphylaxis and hypersensitivity reactions have been observed in patients during and up to 3 hours after alglucosidase alfa infusion. Some of the reactions were life-threatening and included anaphylactic shock, cardiac arrest, respiratory arrest, respiratory distress, hypoxia, apnea, dyspnea, bradycardia, tachycardia, bronchospasm, throat tightness, hypotension, angioedema (including tongue or lip swelling, periorbital edema, and face edema), and urticaria. Other accompanying reactions included chest discomfort/pain, wheezing, tachypnea, cyanosis, decreased oxygen saturation, convulsions, pruritus, rash, hyperhidrosis, nausea, dizziness, hypertension/increased blood pressure, flushing/feeling hot, erythema, pyrexia, pallor, peripheral coldness, restlessness, nervousness, headache, back pain, and paresthesia. Some of these reactions were IgE-mediated.  



 If anaphylaxis or severe hypersensitivity reactions occur, immediately discontinue administration of alglucosidase alfa, and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Severe reactions are generally managed with infusion interruption, administration of antihistamines, corticosteroids, intravenous fluids, and/or oxygen, when clinically indicated. In some cases of anaphylaxis, epinephrine has been administered. Appropriate medical support, including cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment, should be readily available when alglucosidase alfa is administered.



 The risks and benefits of re-administering alglucosidase alfa following an anaphylactic or hypersensitivity reaction should be considered. Some patients have been rechallenged and have continued to receive alglucosidase alfa under close clinical supervision. Extreme care should be exercised, with appropriate resuscitation measures available, if the decision is made to re-administer the product  [seeAdverse Reactions (6.2)]  .



   5.2 Immune-Mediated Reactions

  Immune-mediated cutaneous reactions have been reported with alglucosidase alfa including necrotizing skin lesions  [seeAdverse Reactions (6.3)]  . Systemic immune-mediated reactions, including possible type III immune-mediated reactions have been observed with alglucosidase alfa. These reactions occurred several weeks to 3 years after initiation of alglucosidase alfa infusions. Skin biopsy in one patient demonstrated deposition of anti-rhGAA antibodies in the lesion. Another patient developed severe inflammatory arthropathy in association with pyrexia and elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate. Nephrotic syndrome secondary to membranous glomerulonephritis was observed in some Pompe disease patients treated with alglucosidase alfa who had persistently positive anti-rhGAA IgG antibody titers. In these patients, renal biopsy was consistent with immune complex deposition. Patients improved following treatment interruption. Therefore, patients receiving alglucosidase alfa should undergo periodic urinalysis  [seeAdverse Reactions (6.3)]  .



 Patients should be monitored for the development of systemic immune-mediated reactions involving skin and other organs while receiving alglucosidase alfa. If immune-mediated reactions occur, consider discontinuation of the administration of alglucosidase alfa, and initiate appropriate medical treatment. The risks and benefits of re-administering alglucosidase alfa following an immune-mediated reaction should be considered. Some patients have been able to be rechallenged and have continued to receive alglucosidase alfa under close clinical supervision.



   5.3 Risk of Acute Cardiorespiratory Failure

  Patients with acute underlying respiratory illness or compromised cardiac and/or respiratory function may be at risk of serious exacerbation of their cardiac or respiratory compromise during infusions. Appropriate medical support and monitoring measures should be readily available during alglucosidase alfa infusion, and some patients may require prolonged observation times that should be individualized based on the needs of the patient. Acute cardiorespiratory failure has been observed in infantile-onset Pompe disease patients with underlying cardiac hypertrophy, possibly associated with fluid overload with intravenous administration of alglucosidase alfa  [seeDosage and Administration (2.2)]  .



   5.4 Risk of Cardiac Arrhythmia and Sudden Cardiac Death During General Anesthesia for Central Venous Catheter Placement

    Administration of general anesthesia can be complicated by the presence of severe cardiac and skeletal (including respiratory) muscle weakness. Therefore, caution should be used when administering general anesthesia. Ventricular arrhythmias and bradycardia, resulting in cardiac arrest or death, or requiring cardiac resuscitation or defibrillation have been observed in infantile-onset Pompe disease patients with cardiac hypertrophy during general anesthesia for central venous catheter placement.  



   5.5 Risk of Antibody Development

    As with all therapeutic proteins, there is potential for immunogenicity. In clinical studies, the majority of patients developed IgG antibodies to alglucosidase alfa, typically within 3 months of treatment. There is evidence to suggest that some patients who develop high and sustained IgG antibody titers may experience reduced clinical efficacy to alglucosidase alfa treatment, such as loss of motor function, ventilator dependence, or death. The effect of antibody development on the long term efficacy of alglucosidase alfa is not fully understood.  



   Patients should be monitored for IgG antibody formation every 3 months for 2 years and then annually thereafter. Testing for IgG titers may also be considered if patients develop hypersensitivity reactions, other immune-mediated reactions, or lose clinical response. Patients who experience reduced clinical response may also be tested for inhibitory antibody activity. Patients who experience anaphylactic or hypersensitivity reactions may also be tested for IgE antibodies to alglucosidase alfa and other mediators of anaphylaxis  [seeAdverse Reactions (6.2)]  .  



 There are currently no marketed tests for antibodies against alglucosidase alfa; however, a testing service is provided by Genzyme. Contact your local Genzyme representative or Genzyme Corporation at 1-800-745-4447 for information on testing and to obtain a sample collection box.
