    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

   EXCERPT:    *    If the following occur, discontinue ERWINAZE:Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis (5.1)Severe or hemorrhagic pancreatitis (5.2) 
 *    Glucose intolerance can occur and, in some cases, may be irreversible. Perform appropriate monitoring and treat hyperglycemia with insulin, as necessary (5.3) 
 *    Thrombosis, hemorrhage: discontinue ERWINAZE until resolved (5.4) 
    
   5.1 Hypersensitivity Reactions

    Grade 3 and 4 hypersensitivity reactions after the use of ERWINAZE have occurred in 5% of patients in clinical trials [  see Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ].  



 Administer this product in a setting with resuscitation equipment and other agents necessary to treat anaphylaxis. If a serious hypersensitivity reaction occurs, discontinue ERWINAZE and initiate appropriate therapy.



   5.2 Pancreatitis

    Pancreatitis has been reported in 4% of patients in clinical trials [  see Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ].  



 Evaluate patients with symptoms compatible with pancreatitis to establish a diagnosis. Discontinue ERWINAZE for severe or hemorrhagic pancreatitis manifested by abdominal pain > 72 hours and amylase elevation >= 2.0 x ULN. Severe pancreatitis is a contraindication to additional asparaginase administration. In the case of mild pancreatitis, hold ERWINAZE until the signs and symptoms subside and amylase levels return to normal. After resolution, treatment with ERWINAZE may be resumed.



   5.3 Glucose Intolerance

    Glucose intolerance has been reported in 5% of patients receiving ERWINAZE in clinical trials [  see Adverse Reactions       (6.1)  ]. In some cases glucose intolerance may be irreversible. Monitor glucose levels in patients at baseline and periodically during treatment. Administer insulin therapy as necessary in patients with hyperglycemia.



   5.4 Thrombosis and Hemorrhage

  Serious thrombotic events, including sagittal sinus thrombosis and pulmonary embolism have been reported with both  E. coli  and  Erwinia  -derived L-asparaginase therapy. The following coagulation proteins were decreased in the majority of patients after a 2-week course of ERWINAZE by intramuscular administration: fibrinogen, protein C activity, protein S activity, and anti-thrombin III. Discontinue ERWINAZE for a thrombotic or hemorrhagic event until symptoms resolve; after resolution, treatment with ERWINAZE may be resumed.
