    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *    Thrombocytopenia, leukopenia (neutropenia and lymphopenia), and anemia: Monitor blood counts and modify dosage for hematologic toxicities. (   2.2  ,  5.1   ) 
 *    Infection: Serious and fatal infections (e.g., pneumonia and sepsis). (   5.2   ) 
 *    Hepatotoxicity: Beleodaq may cause hepatic toxicity and liver function test abnormalities. Monitor liver function tests and omit or modify dosage for hepatic toxicities. (   2.2  ,  5.3   ) 
 *    Tumor lysis syndrome: Monitor patients with advanced stage disease and/or high tumor burden and take appropriate precautions. (   5.4   ) 
 *    Embryo-fetal toxicity: Beleodaq may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Advise women of potential harm to the fetus and to avoid pregnancy while receiving Beleodaq. (   5.6   ) 
    
 

   5.1 Hematologic Toxicity



  Beleodaq can cause thrombocytopenia, leukopenia (neutropenia and lymphopenia), and/or anemia; monitor blood counts weekly during treatment, and modify dosage as necessary  [see Dosage and Administration (  2.2    ) and Adverse Reactions   (  6.1  )]  .



    5.2 Infections



  Serious and sometimes fatal infections, including pneumonia and sepsis, have occurred with Beleodaq. Do not administer Beleodaq to patients with an active infection. Patients with a history of extensive or intensive chemotherapy may be at higher risk of life threatening infections [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )].  



    5.3 Hepatotoxicity



  Beleodaq can cause fatal hepatotoxicity and liver function test abnormalities  [see Adverse Reactions  (   6.1  )]  . Monitor liver function tests before treatment and before the start of each cycle. Interrupt or adjust dosage until recovery, or permanently discontinue Beleodaq based on the severity of the hepatic toxicity [see Dosage and Administration (     2.2)     ].  



    5.4 Tumor Lysis Syndrome



  Tumor lysis syndrome has occurred in Beleodaq-treated patients in the clinical trial of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL  [see    Clinical Studies  (   14    ) ]  . Monitor patients with advanced stage disease and/or high tumor burden and take appropriate precautions  [see    Adverse Reactions  (   6.1    ) ]  .



    5.5 Gastrointestinal Toxicity



  Nausea, vomiting and diarrhea occur with Beleodaq  [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )]  and may require the use of antiemetic and antidiarrheal medications.



    5.6 Embryo-fetal Toxicity



  Beleodaq can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Beleodaq may cause teratogenicity and/or embryo-fetal lethality because it is genotoxic and targets actively dividing cells  [see Nonclinical Toxicology  (   13.1    ) ]  . Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid pregnancy while receiving Beleodaq. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of potential hazard to the fetus  [see Use in Specific Populations  (   8.1    ) ]  .
