    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *    Myelosuppression:  Delay or reduce dose. Restart treatment based on ANC and platelet count recovery. (  2.2  ) Complications of myelosuppression may lead to death. (  5.1  ) 
 *    Infections:  Monitor for fever and other signs of infection and treat promptly. (  5.2  ) 
 *    Anaphylaxis and Infusion Reactions: Severe and anaphylactic reactions have occurred; monitor clinically and discontinue TREANDA. Pre-medicate in subsequent cycles for milder reactions. (  5.3  ) 
 *    Tumor Lysis Syndrome:  Acute renal failure and death; anticipate and use supportive measures. (  5.4  ) 
 *    Skin Reactions:  Discontinue for severe skin reactions. Cases of SJS and TEN, some fatal, have been reported when TREANDA was administered concomitantly with allopurinol and other medications known to cause these syndromes. (  5.5  ) 
 *    Other Malignancies: Pre-malignant and malignant diseases have been reported. (  5.6  ) 
 *    Extravasation: Assure good venous access and monitor infusion site during and after administration. (  5.7  ) 
 *    Embryo-fetal toxicity:  Fetal harm can occur when administered to a pregnant woman. Women should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant when receiving TREANDA. (  5.8  ,  8.1  ) 
    
 

   5.1  Myelosuppression



  TREANDA caused severe myelosuppression (Grade 3-4) in 98% of patients in the two NHL studies (see Table 4). Three patients (2%) died from myelosuppression-related adverse reactions; one each from neutropenic sepsis, diffuse alveolar hemorrhage with Grade 3 thrombocytopenia, and pneumonia from an opportunistic infection (CMV).



 In the event of treatment-related myelosuppression, monitor leukocytes, platelets, hemoglobin (Hgb), and neutrophils frequently. In the clinical trials, blood counts were monitored every week initially. Hematologic nadirs were observed predominantly in the third week of therapy. Myelosuppression may require dose delays and/or subsequent dose reductions if recovery to the recommended values has not occurred by the first day of the next scheduled cycle. Prior to the initiation of the next cycle of therapy, the ANC should be >= 1 x 10  9  /L and the platelet count should be >= 75 x 10  9  /L. [see  Dosage and Administration  (  2.2  ) and (  2.3  )]  



    5.2  Infections



  Infection, including pneumonia, sepsis, septic shock, and death have occurred in adult and pediatric patients in clinical trials and in postmarketing reports. Patients with myelosuppression following treatment with TREANDA are more susceptible to infections. Advise patients with myelosuppression following TREANDA treatment to contact a physician if they have symptoms or signs of infection.



    5.3  Anaphylaxis and Infusion Reactions



  Infusion reactions to TREANDA have occurred commonly in clinical trials. Symptoms include fever, chills, pruritus and rash. In rare instances severe anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions have occurred, particularly in the second and subsequent cycles of therapy. Monitor clinically and discontinue drug for severe reactions. Ask patients about symptoms suggestive of infusion reactions after their first cycle of therapy. Patients who experience Grade 3 or worse allergic-type reactions should not be rechallenged. Consider measures to prevent severe reactions, including antihistamines, antipyretics and corticosteroids in subsequent cycles in patients who have experienced Grade 1 or 2 infusion reactions. Discontinue TREANDA for patients with Grade 4 infusion reactions. Consider discontinuation for Grade 3 infusions reactions as clinically appropriate considering individual benefits, risks, and supportive care.



    5.4  Tumor Lysis Syndrome



  Tumor lysis syndrome associated with TREANDA treatment has occurred in patients in clinical trials and in postmarketing reports. The onset tends to be within the first treatment cycle of TREANDA and, without intervention, may lead to acute renal failure and death. Preventive measures include vigorous hydration and close monitoring of blood chemistry, particularly potassium and uric acid levels. Allopurinol has also been used during the beginning of TREANDA therapy. However, there may be an increased risk of severe skin toxicity when TREANDA and allopurinol are administered concomitantly [see  Warnings and Precautions  (  5.5  )]  .



    5.5  Skin Reactions



  Skin reactions have been reported with TREANDA treatment in clinical trials and postmarketing safety reports, including rash, toxic skin reactions and bullous exanthema. Some events occurred when TREANDA was given in combination with other anticancer agents.



 In a study of TREANDA (90 mg/m  2  ) in combination with rituximab, one case of toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) occurred. TEN has been reported for rituximab (see rituximab package insert). Cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and TEN, some fatal, have been reported when TREANDA was administered concomitantly with allopurinol and other medications known to cause these syndromes. The relationship to TREANDA cannot be determined.



 Where skin reactions occur, they may be progressive and increase in severity with further treatment. Monitor patients with skin reactions closely. If skin reactions are severe or progressive, withhold or discontinue TREANDA.



    5.6  Other Malignancies



  There are reports of pre-malignant and malignant diseases that have developed in patients who have been treated with TREANDA, including myelodysplastic syndrome, myeloproliferative disorders, acute myeloid leukemia and bronchial carcinoma.  The association with TREANDA therapy has not been determined.



    5.7  Extravasation Injury



  TREANDA extravasations have been reported in post marketing resulting in hospitalizations from erythema, marked swelling, and pain. Assure good venous access prior to starting TREANDA infusion and monitor the intravenous infusion site for redness, swelling, pain, infection, and necrosis during and after administration of TREANDA.



    5.8  Embryo-fetal Toxicity



  TREANDA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman.  Single intraperitoneal doses of bendamustine in mice and rats administered during organogenesis caused an increase in resorptions, skeletal and visceral malformations, and decreased fetal body weights. [see  Use in Specific Populations  (  8.1  )]  
