    5. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Infections: Monitor patients for signs or symptoms and treat appropriately. (  5.3  ) 
 *  Effects on Ability to Drive and Use Machines: Advise patients to refrain from driving and engaging in hazardous occupations or activities such as operating heavy or potentially dangerous machinery while BLINCYTO is being administered. (  5.6  ) 
 *  Preparation and Administration Errors: Strictly follow instructions for preparation (including admixing) and administration. (  5.9  ) 
    
 

   5.1     Cytokine Release Syndrome



  Cytokine Release Syndrome (CRS), which may be life-threatening or fatal, occurred in patients receiving BLINCYTO. 



 Infusion reactions have occurred with the BLINCYTO infusion and may be clinically indistinguishable from manifestations of CRS .   



 Serious adverse events that may be associated with CRS included pyrexia, headache, nausea, asthenia, hypotension, increased alanine aminotransferase, increased aspartate aminotransferase, and increased total bilirubin; these events infrequently led to BLINCYTO discontinuation. Life-threatening or fatal CRS was infrequently reported in patients receiving BLINCYTO. In some cases, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), capillary leak syndrome (CLS), and hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis/macrophage activation syndrome (HLH/MAS) have been reported in the setting of CRS. 



 Patients should be closely monitored for signs or symptoms of these events. Management of these events may require either temporary interruption or discontinuation of BLINCYTO [see Dosage and Administration (  2.3  )]  .



    5.2     Neurological Toxicities



  In patients receiving BLINCYTO in clinical trials, neurological toxicities have occurred in approximately 50% of patients. The median time to onset of any neurological toxicity was 7 days. Grade 3 or higher (severe, life-threatening, or fatal) neurological toxicities following initiation of BLINCYTO administration occurred in approximately 15% of patients and included encephalopathy, convulsions, speech disorders, disturbances in consciousness, confusion and disorientation, and coordination and balance disorders. The majority of events resolved following interruption of BLINCYTO, but some resulted in treatment discontinuation. 



 Monitor patients receiving BLINCYTO for signs and symptoms of neurological toxicities, and interrupt or discontinue BLINCYTO as recommended [see Dosage and Administration (  2.3  )].     



    5.3     Infections



  In patients receiving BLINCYTO in clinical trials, serious infections such as sepsis, pneumonia, bacteremia, opportunistic infections, and catheter-site infections were observed in approximately 25% of patients, some of which were life-threatening or fatal. As appropriate, administer prophylactic antibiotics and employ surveillance testing during treatment with BLINCYTO.  Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of infection and treat appropriately.



    5.4     Tumor Lysis Syndrome



  Tumor lysis syndrome (TLS), which may be life-threatening or fatal, has been observed in patients receiving BLINCYTO. Appropriate prophylactic measures, including pretreatment nontoxic cytoreduction and on-treatment hydration, should be used for the prevention of TLS during BLINCYTO treatment. Monitor for signs or symptoms of TLS. Management of these events may require either temporary interruption or discontinuation of BLINCYTO [see Dosage and Administration (  2.3  )]  .



    5.5     Neutropenia and Febrile Neutropenia



  Neutropenia and febrile neutropenia, including life-threatening cases, have been observed in patients receiving BLINCYTO. Monitor laboratory parameters (including, but not limited to, white blood cell count and absolute neutrophil count) during BLINCYTO infusion. Interrupt BLINCYTO if prolonged neutropenia occurs. 



    5.6     Effects on Ability to Drive and Use Machines



  Due to the potential for neurologic events, including seizures, patients receiving BLINCYTO are at risk for loss of consciousness [see Warnings and Precautions (  5.2  )]  . Advise patients to refrain from driving and engaging in hazardous occupations or activities such as operating heavy or potentially dangerous machinery while BLINCYTO is being administered. 



    5.7     Elevated Liver Enzymes



  Treatment with BLINCYTO was associated with transient elevations in liver enzymes. Although the majority of these events were observed in the setting of CRS, some were observed outside of this setting. For these events, the median time to onset was 15 days.  In patients receiving BLINCYTO in clinical trials, Grade 3 or greater elevations in liver enzymes occurred in approximately 6% of patients outside the setting of CRS and resulted in treatment discontinuation in less than 1% of patients.



 Monitor alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT), and total blood bilirubin prior to the start of and during BLINCYTO treatment. Interrupt BLINCYTO if the transaminases rise to greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal or if bilirubin rises to more than 3 times the upper limit of normal .  



    5.8     Leukoencephalopathy



  Cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) changes showing leukoencephalopathy have been observed in patients receiving BLINCYTO, especially in patients with prior treatment with cranial irradiation and antileukemic chemotherapy (including systemic high-dose methotrexate or intrathecal cytarabine). The clinical significance of these imaging changes is unknown.    



    5.9     Preparation and Administration Errors



  Preparation and administration errors have occurred with BLINCYTO treatment. Follow instructions for preparation (including admixing) and administration strictly to minimize medication errors (including underdose and overdose) [see Dosage and Administration (  2.2  ) and (  2.4  )]  .
