    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



     EXCERPT:    *   Peripheral neuropathy : Monitor patients for neuropathy and institute dose modifications accordingly  (5.1)  . 
 *   Anaphylaxis and infusion reactions : If an infusion reaction occurs, interrupt the infusion.  If anaphylaxis occurs, immediately discontinue the infusion  (5.2)  . 
 *   Hematologic toxicities : Monitor complete blood counts prior to each dose of ADCETRIS.  Closely monitor patients for fever.  If Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia develops, consider dose delays, reductions, discontinuation, or G-CSF prophylaxis with subsequent doses  (5.3)  . 
 *   Serious infections and opportunistic infections : Closely monitor patients for the emergence of bacterial, fungal or viral infections  (5.4)  . 
 *   Tumor lysis syndrome : Closely monitor patients with rapidly proliferating tumor or high tumor burden  (5.5)  . 
 *   Hepatotoxicity : Monitor liver enzymes and bilirubin  (5.8)  . 
 *   Pulmonary Toxicity : Monitor patients for new or worsening symptoms  (5.10)  . 
 *   Serious dermatologic reactions : Discontinue if Stevens-Johnson syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis occurs  (5.10)  . 
 *   Embryo-fetal toxicity : Fetal harm can occur.  Advise pregnant women of the potential hazard to the fetus  (5.12)  . 
    
 

   5.1 Peripheral Neuropathy



  ADCETRIS treatment causes a peripheral neuropathy that is predominantly sensory. Cases of peripheral motor neuropathy have also been reported. ADCETRIS-induced peripheral neuropathy is cumulative. In the relapsed classical HL and sALCL clinical trials, 54% of patients experienced any grade of neuropathy. Of these patients, 49% had complete resolution, 31% had partial improvement, and 20% had no improvement. Of the patients who reported neuropathy, 51% had residual neuropathy at the time of their last evaluation. Monitor patients for symptoms of neuropathy, such as hypoesthesia, hyperesthesia, paresthesia, discomfort, a burning sensation, neuropathic pain, or weakness. Patients experiencing new or worsening peripheral neuropathy may require a delay, change in dose, or discontinuation of ADCETRIS [see  Dosage and Administration (       2.2       )  and  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  .



    5.2 Anaphylaxis and Infusion Reactions



  Infusion-related reactions, including anaphylaxis, have occurred with ADCETRIS. Monitor patients during infusion. If anaphylaxis occurs, immediately and permanently discontinue administration of ADCETRIS and administer appropriate medical therapy. If an infusion-related reaction occurs, the infusion should be interrupted and appropriate medical management instituted. Patients who have experienced a prior infusion-related reaction should be premedicated for subsequent infusions. Premedication may include acetaminophen, an antihistamine, and a corticosteroid.



    5.3 Hematologic Toxicities



  Prolonged (>=1 week) severe neutropenia and Grade 3 or Grade 4 thrombocytopenia or anemia can occur with ADCETRIS. Febrile neutropenia has been reported with treatment with ADCETRIS. Complete blood counts should be monitored prior to each dose of ADCETRIS and more frequent monitoring should be considered for patients with Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia. Monitor patients for fever. If Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia develops, consider dose delays, reductions, discontinuation, or G-CSF prophylaxis with subsequent ADCETRIS doses [see  Dosage and Administration (       2.2       )  ]  .



    5.4 Serious Infections and Opportunistic Infections



  Serious infections and opportunistic infections such as pneumonia, bacteremia, and sepsis or septic shock (including fatal outcomes) have been reported in patients treated with ADCETRIS. Patients should be closely monitored during treatment for the emergence of possible bacterial, fungal, or viral infections.



    5.5 Tumor Lysis Syndrome



  Patients with rapidly proliferating tumor and high tumor burden may be at increased risk of tumor lysis syndrome. Monitor closely and take appropriate measures.



     5.6 Increased Toxicity in the Presence of Severe Renal Impairment  



   The frequency of >=Grade 3 adverse reactions and deaths was greater in patients with severe renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Due to higher MMAE exposure, >=Grade 3 adverse reactions may be more frequent in patients with severe renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Avoid the use of ADCETRIS in patients with severe renal impairment [creatinine clearance (CLcr) <30 mL/min] [see  Use in Specific Populations (       8.6       )  ].    



     5.7 Increased Toxicity in the Presence of Moderate or Severe Hepatic Impairment  



   The frequency of >=Grade 3 adverse reactions and deaths was greater in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment compared to patients with normal hepatic function. Avoid the use of ADCETRIS in patients with moderate (Child-Pugh B) or severe (Child-Pugh C) hepatic impairment [see  Use in Specific Populations (       8.7       )  ]  .  



     5.8 Hepatotoxicity  



   Serious cases of hepatotoxicity, including fatal outcomes, have occurred in patients receiving ADCETRIS. Cases were consistent with hepatocellular injury, including elevations of transaminases and/or bilirubin. Cases have occurred after the first dose of ADCETRIS or after ADCETRIS rechallenge. Preexisting liver disease, elevated baseline liver enzymes, and concomitant medications may also increase the risk. Monitor liver enzymes and bilirubin. Patients experiencing new, worsening, or recurrent hepatotoxicity may require a delay, change in dose, or discontinuation of ADCETRIS.   



    5.9 Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy



   JC virus infection resulting in PML and death has been reported in ADCETRIS-treated patients. First onset of symptoms occurred at various times from initiation of ADCETRIS therapy, with some cases occurring within 3 months of initial exposure. In addition to ADCETRIS therapy, other possible contributory factors include prior therapies and underlying disease that may cause immunosuppression. Consider the diagnosis of PML in any patient presenting with new-onset signs and symptoms of central nervous system abnormalities. Hold ADCETRIS dosing for any suspected case of PML and discontinue ADCETRIS dosing if a diagnosis of PML is confirmed.  



     5.10 Pulmonary Toxicity  



   Events of noninfectious pulmonary toxicity including pneumonitis, interstitial lung disease, and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), some with fatal outcomes, have been reported. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pulmonary toxicity, including cough and dyspnea. In the event of new or worsening pulmonary symptoms, hold ADCETRIS dosing during evaluation and until symptomatic improvement.  



     5.11 Serious Dermatologic Reactions  



   Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), including fatal outcomes, have been reported with ADCETRIS. If SJS or TEN occurs, discontinue ADCETRIS and administer appropriate medical therapy.  



    5.12 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity



  There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of ADCETRIS in pregnant women. However, based on its mechanism of action and findings in animals, ADCETRIS can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Brentuximab vedotin caused embryo-fetal toxicities, including significantly decreased embryo viability and fetal malformations, in animals at maternal exposures that were similar to human exposures at the recommended doses for patients with classical HL and sALCL. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while receiving the drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [see  Use in Specific Populations (       8.1       )  ]  .
