    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Bone marrow suppression (particularly neutropenia) and its clinical consequences (febrile neutropenia, neutropenic infections): Monitor blood counts frequently to determine if dosage modification or initiation of G-CSF is needed. Primary prophylaxis with G-CSF should be considered in patients with high-risk clinical features. Use caution in patients with hemoglobin < 10 g/dL. (  2.2  )(  4  )(  5.1  ) 
 *  Hypersensitivity: Severe hypersensitivity reactions can occur. Premedicate with corticosteroids and H2 antagonists. Discontinue infusion immediately if hypersensitivity is observed and treat as indicated. (  4  )(  5.2  ) 
 *  Gastrointestinal disorders: Nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea may occur. Mortality related to diarrhea has been reported. Rehydrate and treat with anti-emetics and anti-diarrheals as needed. If experiencing Grade >= 3 diarrhea, dosage should be modified. (  2.2  ) Deaths have occurred due to gastrointestinal hemorrhage, perforation and neutropenic enterocolitis. Delay or discontinue JEVTANA. (  5.3  ) 
 *  Renal failure, including cases with fatal outcomes, has been reported. Identify cause and manage aggressively. (  5.4  ) 
 *  Elderly patients: Patients >= 65 years of age were more likely to experience fatal outcomes not related to disease progression and certain adverse reactions, including neutropenia and febrile neutropenia. Monitor closely. (  5.5  )(  6  )(  8.5  ) 
 *  Hepatic impairment: Reduce the JEVTANA dose to 20 mg/m  2  in patients with mild hepatic impairment and to 15 mg/m  2  in patients with moderate hepatic impairment. (  2.3  ) 
 *  JEVTANA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. (  5.7  )(  8.1  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Bone Marrow Suppression



   Bone marrow suppression manifested as neutropenia, anemia, thrombocytopenia and/or pancytopenia may occur. Neutropenic deaths have been reported. In the randomized trial, five patients (1.3%) experienced fatal infectious adverse events (sepsis or septic shock). All had grade 4 neutropenia and one had febrile neutropenia. One additional patient's death was attributed to neutropenia without a documented infection. Grade 3-4 neutropenia has been observed in 82% of patients treated with JEVTANA in the randomized trial.  



 G-CSF may be administered to reduce the risks of neutropenia complications associated with JEVTANA use. Primary prophylaxis with G-CSF should be considered in patients with high-risk clinical features (age > 65 years, poor performance status, previous episodes of febrile neutropenia, extensive prior radiation ports, poor nutritional status, or other serious comorbidities) that predispose them to increased complications from prolonged neutropenia. Therapeutic use of G-CSF and secondary prophylaxis should be considered in all patients considered to be at increased risk for neutropenia complications.



 Monitoring of complete blood counts is essential on a weekly basis during cycle 1 and before each treatment cycle thereafter so that the dose can be adjusted, if needed [see  Dosage and Administration (2.2)  ]  .



 JEVTANA is contraindicated in patients with neutrophils <= 1,500/mm  3   [see  Contraindications (4)  ]  .



  Caution is recommended in patients with hemoglobin < 10 g/dl.  



    5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions



  Hypersensitivity reactions may occur within a few minutes following the initiation of the infusion of JEVTANA, thus facilities and equipment for the treatment of hypotension and bronchospasm should be available. Severe hypersensitivity reactions can occur and may include generalized rash/erythema, hypotension and bronchospasm.



 Premedicate all patients prior to the initiation of the infusion of JEVTANA [see  Dosage and Administration (2.1)  ]  . Observe patients closely for hypersensitivity reactions, especially during the first and second infusions. Severe hypersensitivity reactions require immediate discontinuation of the JEVTANA infusion and appropriate therapy. JEVTANA is contraindicated in patients with a history of severe hypersensitivity reactions to cabazitaxel or to other drugs formulated with polysorbate 80 [see  Contraindications (4)  ]  .



    5.3 Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions



  Nausea, vomiting and severe diarrhea, at times, may occur. Death related to diarrhea and electrolyte imbalance occurred in the randomized clinical trial. Intensive measures may be required for severe diarrhea and electrolyte imbalance. Antiemetic prophylaxis is recommended. Treat patients with rehydration, anti-diarrheal or anti-emetic medications as needed. Treatment delay or dosage reduction may be necessary if patients experience Grade >= 3 diarrhea [see  Dosage and Administration (2.2)  ].  



 Gastrointestinal (GI) hemorrhage and perforation, ileus, enterocolitis, neutropenic enterocolitis, including fatal outcome, have been reported in patients treated with JEVTANA [see  Adverse Reactions (6.2)  ]  . Risk may be increased with neutropenia, age, steroid use, concomitant use of NSAIDs, anti-platelet therapy or anti-coagulants, and patients with a prior history of pelvic radiotherapy, adhesions, ulceration and GI bleeding.



 Abdominal pain and tenderness, fever, persistent constipation, diarrhea, with or without neutropenia, may be early manifestations of serious gastrointestinal toxicity and should be evaluated and treated promptly. JEVTANA treatment delay or discontinuation may be necessary.



    5.4 Renal Failure



  In the randomized clinical trial, renal failure of any grade occurred in 4% of the patients being treated with JEVTANA, including four cases with fatal outcome. Most cases occurred in association with sepsis, dehydration, or obstructive uropathy [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Some deaths due to renal failure did not have a clear etiology. Appropriate measures should be taken to identify causes of renal failure and treat aggressively.



    5.5 Use in Elderly Patients



  In the randomized clinical trial, 3 of 131 (2%) patients < 65 years of age and 15 of 240 (6%) >= 65 years of age died of causes other than disease progression within 30 days of the last cabazitaxel dose. Patients >= 65 years of age are more likely to experience certain adverse reactions, including neutropenia and febrile neutropenia [see  Adverse Reactions (6)  and  Use in Specific Populations (8.5)  ]  .



    5.6 Use in Patients with Hepatic Impairment



   Cabazitaxel is extensively metabolized in the liver.  



  JEVTANA is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin > 3 * ULN) [  see   Contraindications (4)  ]  . Dose should be reduced for patients with mild (total bilirubin > 1 to <= 1.5 * ULN or AST > 1.5 * ULN) and moderate (total bilirubin > 1.5 to <= 3.0 * ULN and any AST) hepatic impairment, based on tolerability data in these patients [see  Dosage and Administration (2.3)  and  Use in Specific Populations (8.7)  ]  . Administration of cabazitaxel to patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment should be undertaken with caution and close monitoring of safety.  



    5.7 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity



  JEVTANA is not indicated for use in female patients.



 JEVTANA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. In non-clinical studies in rats and rabbits, cabazitaxel was embryotoxic, fetotoxic, and abortifacient at exposures significantly lower than those expected at the recommended human dose level.



 There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women using JEVTANA. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Females of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant during treatment with JEVTANA [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.1)  ]  .
