    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Thrombotic Events: Discontinue COMETRIQ for myocardial infarction, cerebral infarction, or other serious arterial thromboembolic events. (  5.3  ) 
 *  Wound Complications: Withhold COMETRIQ for dehiscence or complications requiring medical intervention. (  5.4  ) 
 *  Hypertension: Monitor blood pressure regularly. Discontinue COMETRIQ for hypertensive crisis. (  5.5  ) 
 *  Osteonecrosis of the jaw: Discontinue COMETRIQ. (  5.6  ). 
 *  Palmar-plantar Erythrodysesthesia syndrome (PPES): Interrupt COMETRIQ, decrease dose. (  5.7  ) 
 *  Proteinuria: Monitor urine protein. Discontinue for nephrotic syndrome. (  5.8  ) 
 *  Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS): Discontinue COMETRIQ. (  5.9  ) 
 *  Embryofetal toxicity: Can cause fetal harm. Advise women of potential risk to a fetus. (  5.11  ,  8.1  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Perforations and Fistulas



  Gastrointestinal (GI) perforations and fistulas were reported in 3% and 1% of COMETRIQ-treated patients, respectively. All were serious and one GI fistula was fatal (< 1%). Non-GI fistulas including tracheal/esophageal were reported in 4% of COMETRIQ-treated patients. Two (1%) of these were fatal.



 Monitor patients for symptoms of perforations and fistulas. Discontinue COMETRIQ in patients who experience a perforation or a fistula.



    5.2 Hemorrhage



  Serious and sometimes fatal hemorrhage occurred with COMETRIQ. The incidence of Grade >=3 hemorrhagic events was higher in COMETRIQ-treated patients compared with placebo (3% vs. 1%).



 Do not administer COMETRIQ to patients with a recent history of hemorrhage or hemoptysis.



    5.3 Thrombotic Events



  COMETRIQ treatment results in an increased incidence of thrombotic events (venous thromboembolism: 6% vs. 3% and arterial thromboembolism: 2% vs. 0% in COMETRIQ-treated and placebo-treated patients, respectively).



 Discontinue COMETRIQ in patients who develop an acute myocardial infarction or any other clinically significant arterial thromboembolic complication.



    5.4 Wound Complications



  Wound complications have been reported with COMETRIQ. Stop treatment with COMETRIQ at least 28 days prior to scheduled surgery. Resume COMETRIQ therapy after surgery based on clinical judgment of adequate wound healing. Withhold COMETRIQ in patients with dehiscence or wound healing complications requiring medical intervention.



    5.5 Hypertension



  COMETRIQ treatment results in an increased incidence of treatment-emergent hypertension with Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (modified JNC criteria) stage 1 or 2 hypertension identified in 61% in COMETRIQ-treated patients compared with 30% of placebo-treated patients in the randomized trial. Monitor blood pressure prior to initiation and regularly during COMETRIQ treatment. Withhold COMETRIQ for hypertension that is not adequately controlled with medical management; when controlled, resume COMETRIQ at a reduced dose. Discontinue COMETRIQ for severe hypertension that cannot be controlled with anti-hypertensive therapy.



    5.6 Osteonecrosis of the Jaw



  Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) occurred in 1% of COMETRIQ-treated patients. ONJ can manifest as jaw pain, osteomyelitis, osteitis, bone erosion, tooth or periodontal infection, toothache, gingival ulceration or erosion, persistent jaw pain or slow healing of the mouth or jaw after dental surgery. Perform an oral examination prior to initiation of COMETRIQ and periodically during COMETRIQ therapy. Advise patients regarding good oral hygiene practices. For invasive dental procedures, withhold COMETRIQ treatment for at least 28 days prior to scheduled surgery, if possible.



    5.7 Palmar-Plantar Erythrodysesthesia Syndrome



  Palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome (PPES) occurred in 50% of patients treated with COMETRIQ and was severe (>= Grade 3) in 13% of patients. Withhold COMETRIQ in patients who develop intolerable Grade 2 PPES or Grade 3-4 PPES until improvement to Grade 1; resume COMETRIQ at a reduced dose.



    5.8 Proteinuria



  Proteinuria was observed in 4 (2%) of patients receiving COMETRIQ, including one with nephrotic syndrome, as compared to none of the patients receiving placebo. Monitor urine protein regularly during COMETRIQ treatment. Discontinue COMETRIQ in patients who develop nephrotic syndrome.



    5.9 Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome



  Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome (RPLS), a syndrome of subcortical vasogenic edema diagnosed by characteristic finding on MRI, occurred in one (<1%) patient. Perform an evaluation for RPLS in any patient presenting with seizures, headache, visual disturbances, confusion or altered mental function. Discontinue COMETRIQ in patients who develop RPLS.



    5.10 Drug Interactions



  Avoid administration of COMETRIQ with agents that are strong CYP3A4 inducers or inhibitors [see   Dosage and Administration   (  2.1  ) and   Drug Interactions   (  7.1  ,  7.2  )].  



    5.11 Hepatic Impairment



  COMETRIQ is not recommended for use in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment [ see   Use in Specific Populations   (  8.6  )  ].



    5.12 Embryo-fetal Toxicity



  COMETRIQ can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Cabozantinib was embryolethal in rats at exposures below the recommended human dose, with increased incidences of skeletal variations in rats and visceral variations and malformations in rabbits. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [See   Use in Specific Populations   (  8.1  )].  
