    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Hypotension: Before initiating INVOKANA, assess volume status and correct hypovolemia in patients with renal impairment, the elderly, in patients with low systolic blood pressure, or if on diuretics, ACEi, or ARB. Monitor for signs and symptoms during therapy (  5.1  ) 
 *  Impairment in Renal Function: Monitor renal function during therapy. More frequent monitoring is recommended in patients with eGFR below 60 mL/min/1.73 m  2  (  5.2  ) 
 *  Hyperkalemia: Monitor potassium levels in patients with impaired renal function and in patients predisposed to hyperkalemia (  2.2  ,  5.3  ,  6.1  ,  8.6  ) 
 *  Hypoglycemia: Consider a lower dose of insulin or the insulin secretagogue to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with INVOKANA (  5.4  ) 
 *  Genital mycotic infections: Monitor and treat if indicated (  5.5  ) 
 *  Hypersensitivity reactions: Discontinue INVOKANA and monitor until signs and symptoms resolve (  5.6  ) 
 *  Bone fracture: Consider factors that contribute to fracture risk before initiating INVOKANA (  5.7  ) 
 *  Increased LDL-C: Monitor LDL-C and treat if appropriate (  5.8  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Hypotension



  INVOKANA causes intravascular volume contraction. Symptomatic hypotension can occur after initiating INVOKANA [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1  )]  particularly in patients with impaired renal function (eGFR less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m  2  ), elderly patients, patients on either diuretics or medications that interfere with the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g., angiotensin-converting-enzyme [ACE] inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]), or patients with low systolic blood pressure. Before initiating INVOKANA in patients with one or more of these characteristics, volume status should be assessed and corrected. Monitor for signs and symptoms after initiating therapy.



    5.2 Impairment in Renal Function



  INVOKANA increases serum creatinine and decreases eGFR. Patients with hypovolemia may be more susceptible to these changes. Renal function abnormalities can occur after initiating INVOKANA [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . More frequent renal function monitoring is recommended in patients with an eGFR below 60 mL/min/1.73 m  2  .



    5.3 Hyperkalemia



  INVOKANA can lead to hyperkalemia. Patients with moderate renal impairment who are taking medications that interfere with potassium excretion, such as potassium-sparing diuretics, or medications that interfere with the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system are at an increased risk of developing hyperkalemia [see  Dosage and Administration (2.2)  and  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  .



 Monitor serum potassium levels periodically after initiating INVOKANA in patients with impaired renal function and in patients predisposed to hyperkalemia due to medications or other medical conditions.



    5.4 Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use with Insulin and Insulin Secretagogues



  Insulin and insulin secretagogues are known to cause hypoglycemia. INVOKANA can increase the risk of hypoglycemia when combined with insulin or an insulin secretagogue [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Therefore, a lower dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue may be required to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with INVOKANA.



    5.5 Genital Mycotic Infections



  INVOKANA increases the risk of genital mycotic infections. Patients with a history of genital mycotic infections and uncircumcised males were more likely to develop genital mycotic infections [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Monitor and treat appropriately.



    5.6 Hypersensitivity Reactions



  Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., generalized urticaria), some serious, were reported with INVOKANA treatment; these reactions generally occurred within hours to days after initiating INVOKANA. If hypersensitivity reactions occur, discontinue use of INVOKANA; treat and monitor until signs and symptoms resolve [see  Contraindications (4)  and  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  .



    5.7 Bone Fracture



   An increased risk of bone fracture, occurring as early as 12 weeks after treatment initiation, was observed in patients using INVOKANA. Consider factors that contribute to fracture risk prior to initiating INVOKANA [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  .  



    5.8 Increases in Low-Density Lipoprotein (LDL-C)



  Dose-related increases in LDL-C occur with INVOKANA [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Monitor LDL-C and treat if appropriate after initiating INVOKANA.



    5.9 Macrovascular Outcomes



  There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with INVOKANA or any other antidiabetic drug.
