    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Do not use near eyes or mucous membranes. (  5.1  ) 
 *  Inhalation of airborne capsaicin can result in coughing or sneezing. (  5.2  ) 
 *  If irritation of eyes or airway occurs, remove the affected individual from the vicinity of Qutenza and flush the mucous membranes or eyes with water. If skin not intended to be treated comes into contact with Qutenza, apply Cleansing Gel and then wipe off with dry gauze. (  5.2  ,  5.3  ) 
 *  Transient increases in blood pressure may occur in patients during and shortly after the Qutenza treatment. Monitor blood pressure during and following the treatment procedure. For those patients who require the use of opioids to treat pain during or following the procedure, their ability to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving or operating machinery may be affected. (  5.4  ,  5.5  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Eye and Mucous Membrane Exposure



  Do not apply Qutenza to the face or scalp to avoid risk of exposure to the eyes or mucous membranes.



    5.2 Aerosolization of Capsaicin



  Aerosolization of capsaicin can occur upon rapid removal of Qutenza patches. Therefore, remove Qutenza patches gently and slowly by rolling the adhesive side inward [see  Dosage and Administration (2.3  )]  .



 If irritation of eyes or airways occurs, remove the affected individual from the vicinity of Qutenza. Flush eyes and mucous membranes with cool water.



 Inhalation of airborne capsaicin can result in coughing or sneezing. Provide supportive medical care if shortness of breath develops.



    5.3 Unintended Skin Exposure



  If skin not intended to be treated comes in contact with Qutenza, apply Cleansing Gel for one minute and wipe off with dry gauze. After the Cleansing Gel has been wiped off, wash the area with soap and water.



    5.4 Application Associated Pain



  Even following use of a local anesthetic prior to administration of Qutenza, patients may experience substantial procedural pain. Prepare to treat acute pain during and following the application procedure with local cooling (such as an ice pack) and/or appropriate analgesic medication, such as opioids. Opioids may affect the ability to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving or operating machinery.



    5.5 Increase in Blood Pressure



  In clinical trials, increases in blood pressure occurred during or shortly after exposure to Qutenza. The changes averaged less than 10 mm Hg, although some patients had greater increases and these changes lasted for approximately two hours after patch removal. Increases in blood pressure were unrelated to the pretreatment blood pressure but were related to treatment-related increases in pain. Monitor blood pressure periodically during the treatment and provide adequate support for treatment related pain.



 Patients with unstable or poorly controlled hypertension, a recent history of cardiovascular or cerebrovascular events may be at an increased risk of adverse cardiovascular effects. Consider these factors prior to initiating Qutenza treatment.
