    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *    Cardiac toxicities include cardiac failure and myocardial infarction with fatal outcome, and myocardial ischemia. Withhold Kyprolis and evaluate promptly. (  5.1  ) 
 *    Acute Renal Failure: Monitor serum creatinine regularly (  5.2  ) 
 *    Tumor Lysis Syndrome (TLS): Administer pre-treatment hydration. (  2.1  ) Monitor for TLS, including uric acid levels and treat promptly. (  5.3  ) 
 *    Pulmonary Toxicity: including Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome, acute respiratory failure, and acute diffuse infiltrative pulmonary disease: Withhold Kyprolis and evaluate promptly (  5.4  ) 
 *    Pulmonary Hypertension: Withhold Kyprolis and evaluate (  5.5  ) 
 *    Dyspnea: For severe or life threatening dyspnea, withhold Kyprolis and evaluate. (  5.6  ) 
 *    Hypertension including hypertensive crisis: Monitor blood pressure regularly. If hypertension cannot be adequately controlled, a risk-benefit decision on continued Kyprolis therapy is needed. (  5.7  ) 
 *    Venous Thrombosis: Thromboprophylaxis is recommended. (  5.8  ) 
 *    Infusion Reactions: Pre-medicate with dexamethasone. (  2.1  ,  5.9  ) 
 *    Thrombocytopenia: Monitor platelet counts; interrupt or reduce Kyprolis dosing as clinically indicated. (  2.4  ,  5.10  ) 
 *    Hepatic Toxicity and Hepatic Failure: Monitor liver enzymes. Withhold Kyprolis if suspected. (  5.11  ) 
 *    Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura/hemolytic uremic syndrome (TTP/HUS). Monitor for signs and symptoms of TTP/HUS. Discontinue Kyprolis if suspected. (  5.12  ) 
 *    Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES): Consider neuro-radiological imaging (MRI) for onset of visual or neurological symptoms; discontinue Kyprolis if suspected. (  5.13  ) 
 *    Embryo-fetal Toxicity: Kyprolis can cause fetal harm. Females of reproductive potential should avoid becoming pregnant while being treated. (  5.14  ,  8.1  ) 
    
 

    5.1 Cardiac Toxicities  



   New onset or worsening of pre-existing cardiac failure (e.g., congestive heart failure, pulmonary edema, decreased ejection fraction), restrictive cardiomyopathy, myocardial ischemia, and myocardial infarction including fatalities have occurred following administration of Kyprolis. In clinical studies with Kyprolis, these events typically occurred early in the course of Kyprolis therapy (< 5 cycles). Death due to cardiac arrest has occurred within a day of Kyprolis administration.  



  Withhold Kyprolis for Grade 3 or 4 cardiac adverse events until recovery, and consider whether to restart Kyprolis at 1 dose level reduction based on a benefit/risk assessment [ see Dosage and Administration (  2  )  ].  



  While adequate hydration is required prior to each dose in Cycle 1, all patients should also be monitored for evidence of volume overload, especially patients at risk for cardiac failure. Adjust total fluid intake as clinically appropriate in patients with baseline cardiac failure or who are at risk for cardiac failure [ see Dosage and Administration (  2  )  ].  



  In patients >= 75 years of age, the risk of cardiac failure is increased. Patients with New York Heart Association Class III and IV heart failure, recent myocardial infarction, and conduction abnormalities uncontrolled by medications were not eligible for the clinical trials. These patients may be at greater risk for cardiac complications [ see Use in Specific Populations (  8  )  ].  



     5.2 Acute Renal Failure  



   Cases of acute renal failure have occurred in patients receiving Kyprolis. Renal insufficiency adverse events (renal impairment, acute renal failure, renal failure) have occurred with an incidence of approximately 8% in a randomized controlled trial. Acute renal failure was reported more frequently in patients with advanced relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma who received Kyprolis monotherapy. This risk was greater in patients with a baseline reduced estimated creatinine clearance (calculated using Cockcroft and Gault equation). Monitor renal function with regular measurement of the serum creatinine and/or estimated creatinine clearance. Reduce or withhold dose as appropriate [ see Dosage and Administration (  2  )  ].  



     5.3 Tumor Lysis Syndrome  



   Cases of tumor lysis syndrome (TLS), including fatal outcomes, have been reported in patients who received Kyprolis. Patients with multiple myeloma and a high tumor burden should be considered to be at greater risk for TLS. Ensure that patients are well hydrated before administration of Kyprolis in Cycle 1, and in subsequent cycles as needed [ see Dosage and Administration (  2  )  ]. Consider uric acid lowering drugs in patients at risk for TLS. Monitor for evidence of TLS during treatment and manage promptly including interruption of Kyprolis until TLS is resolved [ see Dosage and Administration (  2  )  ].  



     5.4 Pulmonary Toxicity  



   Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), acute respiratory failure, and acute diffuse infiltrative pulmonary disease such as pneumonitis and interstitial lung disease have occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving Kyprolis. Some events have been fatal. In the event of drug-induced pulmonary toxicity, discontinue Kyprolis [ see Dosage and Administration (  2  )  ].  



     5.5 Pulmonary Hypertension  



   Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) was reported in approximately 1% of patients treated with Kyprolis and was Grade 3 or greater in less than 1% of patients. Evaluate with cardiac imaging and/or other tests as indicated. Withhold Kyprolis for pulmonary hypertension until resolved or returned to baseline and consider whether to restart Kyprolis based on a benefit/risk assessment [ see Dosage and Administration (  2  )  ].  



     5.6 Dyspnea  



   Dyspnea was reported in 28% of patients treated with Kyprolis and was Grade 3 or greater in 4% of patients. Evaluate dyspnea to exclude cardiopulmonary conditions including cardiac failure and pulmonary syndromes. Stop Kyprolis for Grade 3 or 4 dyspnea until resolved or returned to baseline. Consider whether to restart Kyprolis based on a benefit/risk assessment [ see Dosage and Administration (  2.3  ), Warnings and Precautions - Cardiac Toxicities (  5.1  ), Pulmonary Toxicity (        5.4        ), and Adverse Reactions (  6  )  ].  



     5.7 Hypertension  



   Hypertension, including hypertensive crisis and hypertensive emergency, has been observed with Kyprolis. Some of these events have been fatal. Monitor blood pressure regularly in all patients. If hypertension cannot be adequately controlled, withhold Kyprolis and evaluate. Consider whether to restart Kyprolis based on a benefit/risk assessment [ see Dosage and Administration (  2  )  ].  



     5.8 Venous Thrombosis  



   Venous thromboembolic events (including deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism) have been observed with Kyprolis. In the combination study, the incidence of venous thromboembolic events in the first 12 cycles was 13% in the Kyprolis combination arm versus 6% in the control arm. With Kyprolis monotherapy, the incidence of venous thromboembolic events was 2%. Thromboprophylaxis is recommended and should be based on an assessment of the patient's underlying risks, treatment regimen, and clinical status.  



     5.9 Infusion Reactions  



   Infusion reactions, including life-threatening reactions, have occurred in patients receiving Kyprolis. Symptoms include fever, chills, arthralgia, myalgia, facial flushing, facial edema, vomiting, weakness, shortness of breath, hypotension, syncope, chest tightness, or angina. These reactions can occur immediately following or up to 24 hours after administration of Kyprolis. Administer dexamethasone prior to Kyprolis to reduce the incidence and severity of infusion reactions [ see Dosage and Administration (  2  )  ]. Inform patients of the risk and of symptoms and to contact a physician immediately if symptoms of an infusion reaction occur [ see Patient Counseling Information (  17  )  ].  



     5.10 Thrombocytopenia  



   Kyprolis causes thrombocytopenia with platelet nadirs observed between Day 8 and Day 15 of each 28-day cycle with recovery to baseline platelet count usually by the start of the next cycle [ see Adverse Reactions (  6  )  ]. Thrombocytopenia was reported in approximately 40% of patients in clinical trials with Kyprolis. Monitor platelet counts frequently during treatment with Kyprolis. Reduce or withhold dose as appropriate [ see Dosage and Administration (  2  )  ].  



     5.11 Hepatic Toxicity and Hepatic Failure  



   Cases of hepatic failure, including fatal cases, have been reported (< 1%) during treatment with Kyprolis. Kyprolis can cause increased serum transaminases. Monitor liver enzymes regularly. Reduce or withhold dose as appropriate [ see Dosage and Administration (  2  ) and Adverse Reactions (  6  )  ].  



     5.12 Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura/Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome  



   Cases of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura/hemolytic uremic syndrome (TTP/HUS) including fatal outcome have been reported in patients who received Kyprolis. Monitor for signs and symptoms of TTP/HUS. If the diagnosis is suspected, stop Kyprolis and evaluate. If the diagnosis of TTP/HUS is excluded, Kyprolis may be restarted. The safety of reinitiating Kyprolis therapy in patients previously experiencing TTP/HUS is not known.  



     5.13 Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome (PRES)  



   Cases of PRES have been reported in patients receiving Kyprolis. Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES), formerly termed Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome (RPLS), is a neurological disorder which can present with seizure, headache, lethargy, confusion, blindness, altered consciousness, and other visual and neurological disturbances, along with hypertension, and the diagnosis is confirmed by neuro-radiological imaging (MRI). Discontinue Kyprolis if PRES is suspected and evaluate. The safety of reinitiating Kyprolis therapy in patients previously experiencing PRES is not known.  



     5.14 Embryo-fetal Toxicity  



   Kyprolis can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman based on its mechanism of action and findings in animals. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women using Kyprolis. Carfilzomib caused embryo-fetal toxicity in pregnant rabbits at doses that were lower than in patients receiving the recommended dose.  



  Females of reproductive potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant while being treated with Kyprolis. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations (  8.1  )  ].  
