    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Decreased efficacy in patients with baseline CrCl of 30 to <=50 mL/min. Monitor CrCl at least daily in patients with changing renal function and adjust the dose of ZERBAXA accordingly. (  5.1  ) 
 *  Serious hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions have been reported with beta-lactam antibacterial drugs. Exercise caution in patients with known hypersensitivity to beta-lactam antibacterial drugs. (  5.2  ) 
 *   Clostridium difficile -associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with nearly all systemic antibacterial agents, including ZERBAXA. Evaluate if diarrhea occurs. (  5.3  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Decreased Efficacy in Patients with Baseline Creatinine Clearance of 30 to <=50 mL/min



  In a subgroup analysis of a Phase 3 cIAI trial, clinical cure rates were lower in patients with baseline creatinine clearance (CrCl) of 30 to <=50 mL/min compared to those with CrCl >=50 mL/min (Table 4). The reduction in clinical cure rates was more marked in the ZERBAXA plus metronidazole arm compared to the meropenem arm. A similar trend was also seen in the cUTI trial. Monitor CrCl at least daily in patients with changing renal function and adjust the dosage of ZERBAXA accordingly [see  Dosage and Administration (2.2)  ]  .



 Table 4: Clinical Cure Rates in a Phase 3 Trial of cIAI by Baseline Renal Function (MITT Population) 
 Baseline Renal Function             ZERBAXA plus metronidazolen/N (%)          Meropenemn/N (%)            
  
 Normal/mild impairment(CrCl >=50 mL/min)           312/366 (85.2)                     355/404 (87.9)             
 Moderate impairment(CrCl 30 to <=50 mL/min)            11/23 (47.8)                        9/13 (69.2)              
            5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions
 

  Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions have been reported in patients receiving beta-lactam antibacterial drugs.



 Before initiating therapy with ZERBAXA, make careful inquiry about previous hypersensitivity reactions to other cephalosporins, penicillins, or other beta-lactams. If this product is to be given to a patient with a cephalosporin, penicillin, or other beta-lactam allergy, exercise caution because cross sensitivity has been established. If an anaphylactic reaction to ZERBAXA occurs, discontinue the drug and institute appropriate therapy.



    5.3 Clostridium difficile  -associated Diarrhea



   Clostridium difficile  -associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported for nearly all systemic antibacterial agents, including ZERBAXA, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of C  . difficile  .



  C. difficile  produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial use. Careful medical history is necessary because CDAD has been reported to occur more than 2 months after the administration of antibacterial agents.



 If CDAD is confirmed, discontinue antibacterials not directed against C. difficile  , if possible. Manage fluid and electrolyte levels as appropriate, supplement protein intake, monitor antibacterial treatment of C. difficile  , and institute surgical evaluation as clinically indicated.



    5.4 Development of Drug-Resistant Bacteria



  Prescribing ZERBAXA in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and risks the development of drug-resistant bacteria.
