

    BOXED WARNING: WARNING: SERIOUS INFECTIONS AND MALIGNANCY

    WARNING: SERIOUS INFECTIONS AND MALIGNANCY  

    SERIOUS INFECTIONS  



   Patients treated with CIMZIA are at increased risk for developing serious infections that may lead to hospitalization or death   [see   Warnings and Precautions (5.1)   and   Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Most patients who developed these infections were taking concomitant immunosuppressants such as methotrexate or corticosteroids.  



   CIMZIA should be discontinued if a patient develops a serious infection or sepsis.  



   Reported infections include:  



 *  Active tuberculosis, including reactivation of latent tuberculosis. Patients with tuberculosis have frequently presented with disseminated or extrapulmonary disease. Patients should be tested for latent tuberculosis before CIMZIA use and during therapy. Treatment for latent infection should be initiated prior to CIMZIA use. 
 *  Invasive fungal infections, including histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, candidiasis, aspergillosis, blastomycosis, and pneumocystosis. Patients with histoplasmosis or other invasive fungal infections may present with disseminated, rather than localized disease. Antigen and antibody testing for histoplasmosis may be negative in some patients with active infection. Empiric anti-fungal therapy should be considered in patients at risk for invasive fungal infections who develop severe systemic illness. 
 *  Bacterial, viral and other infections due to opportunistic pathogens, including Legionella and Listeria. 
      The risks and benefits of treatment with CIMZIA should be carefully considered prior to initiating therapy in patients with chronic or recurrent infection.  
 

   Patients should be closely monitored for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during and after treatment with CIMZIA, including the possible development of tuberculosis in patients who tested negative for latent tuberculosis infection prior to initiating therapy.   [see   Warnings and Precautions (5.1)   and   Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ].    



   MALIGNANCY  



   Lymphoma and other malignancies, some fatal, have been reported in children and adolescent patients treated with TNF blockers, of which CIMZIA is a member   [see   Warnings and Precautions (5.2)  ].   CIMZIA is not indicated for use in pediatric patients.  



   EXCERPT:     WARNING: SERIOUS INFECTIONS AND MALIGNANCY  



   See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning.  



 *  Increased risk of serious infections leading to hospitalization or death including tuberculosis (TB), bacterial sepsis, invasive fungal infections (such as histoplasmosis), and infections due to other opportunistic pathogens (5.1). 
 *  CIMZIA should be discontinued if a patient develops a serious infection or sepsis (5.1). 
 *  Perform test for latent TB; if positive, start treatment for TB prior to starting CIMZIA (5.1). 
 *  Monitor all patients for active TB during treatment, even if initial latent TB test is negative (5.1) 
 *  Lymphoma and other malignancies, some fatal, have been reported in children and adolescent patients treated with TNF blockers, of which CIMZIA is a member (5.2). CIMZIA is not indicated for use in pediatric patients. (8.4) 
