    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Maintain aseptic technique. Discard unused portion 12 hours after stopper puncture.  (5.1)   
 *  Hypotension and reflex tachycardia are potential consequences of rapid upward titration of Cleviprex.  (5.2)   
 *  Dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers can produce negative inotropic effects and exacerbate heart failure. Monitor heart failure patients carefully.  (5.4)   
 *  Cleviprex gives no protection against the effects of abrupt beta-blocker withdrawal.  (5.5)   
 *  Patients who receive prolonged Cleviprex infusions and are not transitioned to other antihypertensive therapies should be monitored for the possibility of rebound hypertension for at least 8 hours after the infusion is stopped.  (5.6)   
    
 

   5.1 Need for Aseptic Technique



  Use aseptic technique and discard any unused product within 12 hours of stopper puncture   [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]    .



    5.2 Hypotension and Reflex Tachycardia



  Cleviprex may produce systemic hypotension and reflex tachycardia. If either occurs, decrease the dose of Cleviprex. There is limited experience with short-duration therapy with beta-blockers as a treatment for Cleviprex-induced tachycardia. Beta-blocker use for this purpose is not recommended.



    5.3 Lipid Intake



  Cleviprex contains approximately 0.2 g of lipid per mL (2.0 kcal). Lipid intake restrictions may be necessary for patients with significant disorders of lipid metabolism. For these patients, a reduction in the quantity of concurrently administered lipids may be necessary to compensate for the amount of lipid infused as part of the Cleviprex formulation.



    5.4 Negative Inotropy



  Dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers can produce negative inotropic effects and exacerbate heart failure. Monitor heart failure patients carefully.



    5.5 Beta-Blocker Withdrawal



  Cleviprex is not a beta-blocker, does not reduce heart rate, and gives no protection against the effects of abrupt beta-blocker withdrawal. Beta-blockers should be withdrawn only after a gradual reduction in dose.



    5.6 Rebound Hypertension



  Patients who receive prolonged Cleviprex infusions and are not transitioned to other antihypertensive therapies should be monitored for the possibility of rebound hypertension for at least 8 hours after the infusion is stopped.



    5.7 Pheochromocytoma



  There is no information to guide use of Cleviprex in treating hypertension associated with pheochromocytoma.
