    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Tendon rupture or serious injury to the injected finger/hand: Avoid injecting XIAFLEX into tendons, nerves, blood vessels, or other collagen-containing structure of the hand. Injection into these structures may result in possible permanent injury, such as tendon rupture or ligament damage, or skin laceration. (  5.1  ) 
 *  Corporal rupture (penile fracture) or other serious injury to the penis: Avoid injecting into the urethra, nerves, blood vessels, corpora cavernosa or other collagen-containing structures of the penis. Injection into these structures may result in possible permanent injury such as corporal rupture (penile fracture). (  5.2  ) 
 *  Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis: Healthcare providers should be prepared to address hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, following XIAFLEX injections. (  5.4  ) 
 *  Patients with abnormal coagulation: Use with caution, including in patients who have received anticoagulant medications other than low-dose aspirin within 7 days of the injection. (  5.5  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Tendon Rupture or Other Serious Injury to the Injected Finger/Hand in the Treatment of Dupuytren's Contracture



  In the controlled and uncontrolled portions of clinical trials in Dupuytren's contracture, flexor tendon ruptures occurred after XIAFLEX injection   [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]    . Injection of XIAFLEX into collagen-containing structures such as tendons or ligaments of the hand may result in damage to those structures and possible permanent injury such as tendon rupture or ligament damage. Therefore, XIAFLEX should be injected only into the collagen cord with a MP or PIP joint contracture, and care should be taken to avoid injecting into tendons, nerves, blood vessels, or other collagen-containing structures of the hand. When injecting a cord affecting a PIP joint of the fifth finger, the needle insertion should not be more than 2 to 3 mm in depth and avoid injecting more than 4 mm distal to the palmar digital crease   [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]    .



  Other XIAFLEX-associated serious local adverse reactions included pulley rupture, ligament injury, complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS), sensory abnormality of the hand, and skin laceration (tear). In a historically controlled post-marketing trial, the incidence of skin laceration (22%) was higher for subjects treated with two concurrent injections of XIAFLEX compared with subjects treated with up to three single injections in the placebo-controlled premarketing trials (9%). Cases of skin laceration requiring skin graft after finger extension procedures have been reported post-marketing. Signs or symptoms that may reflect serious injury to the injected finger/hand should be promptly evaluated because surgical intervention may be required.  



    5.2 Corporal Rupture (Penile Fracture) or Other Serious Injury to the Penis in the Treatment of Peyronie's Disease



  Corporal rupture was reported as an adverse reaction after XIAFLEX injections in 5 of 1044 (0.5%) XIAFLEX treated patients in the controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials in Peyronie's disease.



 In other XIAFLEX-treated patients (9 of 1044; 0.9%), a combination of penile ecchymoses or hematoma, sudden penile detumescence, and/or a penile "popping" sound or sensation was reported, and in these cases, a diagnosis of corporal rupture can not be excluded. These patients were managed without surgical intervention, but the long-term consequences are unknown.



 Severe penile hematoma was also reported as an adverse reaction in 39 of 1044 patients (3.7%) in the controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials in Peyronie's disease [ see Adverse Reactions (  6  )  ].



 Signs or symptoms that may reflect serious injury to the penis should be promptly evaluated in order to assess for corporal rupture or severe penile hematoma, which may require surgical intervention.



 Injection of XIAFLEX into collagen-containing structures such as the corpora cavernosa of the penis may result in damage to those structures and possible injury such as corporal rupture (penile fracture). Therefore, XIAFLEX should be injected only into the Peyronie's plaque and care should be taken to avoid injecting into the urethra, nerves, blood vessels, corpora cavernosa or other collagen-containing structures of the penis.



    5.3 XIAFLEX REMS Program



  Because of the risks of corporal rupture (penile fracture) or other serious penile injury in the treatment of Peyronie's disease, XIAFLEX is available only through the XIAFLEX REMS Program      [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]  .  



 Required components of the XIAFLEX REMS Program  include the following:



 *  Prescribers must be certified with the program by enrolling and completing training in the administration of XIAFLEX treatment for Peyronie's disease. 
 *  Healthcare sites must be certified with the program and ensure that XIAFLEX is only dispensed for use by certified prescribers. 
    Further information is available at www.XIAFLEXREMS.com or 1-877-313-1235.
 

    5.4 Hypersensitivity Reactions, Including Anaphylaxis



  In the controlled portions of the clinical trials in Dupuytren's contracture (Studies 1 and 2), a greater proportion of XIAFLEX-treated patients (15%) compared to placebo-treated patients (1%) had mild allergic reactions (pruritus) after up to 3 injections. The incidence of XIAFLEX-associated pruritus increased after more XIAFLEX injections in patients with Dupuytren's contracture.



  In the double-blind, placebo-controlled portions of the clinical trials in Peyronie's disease (Studies 1 and 2), a greater proportion of XIAFLEX-treated patients (4%) compared to placebo-treated patients (1%) had localized pruritus after up to 4 treatment cycles (involving up to 8 XIAFLEX injection procedures). The incidence of XIAFLEX-associated pruritus was similar after each injection regardless of the number of injections administered.  



  Because XIAFLEX contains foreign proteins, severe allergic reactions to XIAFLEX can occur. Anaphylaxis was reported in a post-marketing clinical trial (Study 3) in one patient who had previous exposure to XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren's contracture. Some patients with Dupuytren's contracture developed IgE-anti-drug antibodies in greater proportions and higher titers with successive XIAFLEX injections. Healthcare providers should be prepared to address severe allergic reactions following XIAFLEX injections.  



    5.5 Risk of bleeding in Patients with Abnormal Coagulation



  In the XIAFLEX trials in Dupuytren's contracture (Studies 1 and 2), 70% and 38% of XIAFLEX-treated patients developed an ecchymosis/contusion or an injection site hemorrhage, respectively (see Table 3). In the XIAFLEX controlled trials in Peyronie's disease (Studies 1 and 2), 65.5% of XIAFLEX-treated patients developed penile hematoma, and 14.5% developed penile ecchymosis (see Table 4). Patients with abnormal coagulation (except for patients taking low-dose aspirin, e.g., up to 150 mg per day) were excluded from participating in these studies.



 Therefore, the efficacy and safety of XIAFLEX in patients receiving anticoagulant medications (other than low-dose aspirin, e.g., up to 150 mg per day) within 7 days prior to XIAFLEX administration is not known. In addition, it is recommended to avoid use of XIAFLEX in patients with coagulation disorders, including patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants (except for low-dose aspirin).
