    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Hepatotoxicity: Fatal hepatotoxicity occurred in 0.1% of patients. Monitor with periodic liver testing. Temporarily suspend, dose reduce, or permanently discontinue XALKORI. (  5.1  ) 
 *  Interstitial Lung Disease (ILD)/Pneumonitis: Occurred in 2.9% of patients. Permanently discontinue in patients with ILD/pneumonitis. (  5.2  ) 
 *  QT Interval Prolongation: Occurred in 2.1% of patients. Monitor with electrocardiograms and electrolytes in patients who have a history of or predisposition for QTc prolongation, or who are taking medications that prolong QT. Temporarily suspend, dose reduce, or permanently discontinue XALKORI. (  5.3  ) 
 *  Bradycardia: XALKORI can cause bradycardia. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure regularly. Temporarily suspend, dose reduce, or permanently discontinue XALKORI. (  5.4  ) 
 *  Severe Visual Loss: Reported in 0.2% of patients. Discontinue XALKORI in patients with severe visual loss. Perform an ophthalmological evaluation. (  5.5  ) 
 *  Embryofetal Toxicity: Can cause fetal harm. Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and use of effective contraception. (  5.6  ,  8.1  ,  8.3  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Hepatotoxicity



   Drug-induced hepatotoxicity with fatal outcome occurred in 2 (0.1%) of the 1669 patients treated with XALKORI across clinical trials in patients with NSCLC. Concurrent elevations in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate aminotransferase (AST) greater than or equal to three times the upper limit of normal (ULN) and total bilirubin greater than or equal to two times the ULN, with normal alkaline phosphatase, occurred in 10 patients (0.6%) treated with XALKORI. Additionally, elevations in ALT or AST greater than five times the ULN occurred in 184 (11%) and 93 (5.7%) patients, respectively. Seventeen patients (1.0%) required permanent discontinuation due to elevated transaminases. Transaminase elevations generally occurred within the first 2 months of treatment.  



 Monitor with liver function tests including ALT and total bilirubin every 2 weeks during the first 2 months of treatment, then once a month and as clinically indicated, with more frequent repeat testing for increased liver transaminases, alkaline phosphatase, or total bilirubin in patients who develop transaminase elevations. Temporarily suspend, dose reduce, or permanently discontinue XALKORI as described in Table 2 [see  Dosage and Administration (2.3)  and  Adverse Reactions (6)  ]  .



    5.2 Interstitial Lung Disease (Pneumonitis)



   Severe, life-threatening, or fatal interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis can occur in patients treated with XALKORI. Across clinical trials (n=1669), 49 XALKORI-treated patients (2.9%) had ILD of any grade, 18 patients (1.1%) had Grade 3 or 4 ILD, and 8 patients (0.5%) had fatal ILD. These cases generally occurred within 3 months after the initiation of XALKORI.  



 Monitor patients for pulmonary symptoms indicative of ILD/pneumonitis. Exclude other potential causes of ILD/pneumonitis, and permanently discontinue XALKORI in patients diagnosed with drug-related ILD/pneumonitis [see  Dosage and Administration (2.3)  and  Adverse Reactions (6)  ]  .



    5.3 QT Interval Prolongation



   QTc prolongation can occur in patients treated with XALKORI. Across clinical trials, 32 of 1560 patients (2.1%) had QTcF (corrected QT by the Fridericia method) greater than or equal to 500 ms and 76 of 1520 patients (5.0%) had an increase from baseline QTcF greater than or equal to 60 ms by automated machine-read evaluation of ECG.  



 Avoid use of XALKORI in patients with congenital long QT syndrome. Consider periodic monitoring with electrocardiograms (ECGs) and electrolytes in patients with congestive heart failure, bradyarrhythmias, electrolyte abnormalities, or who are taking medications that are known to prolong the QT interval. Permanently discontinue XALKORI in patients who develop QTc greater than 500 ms or greater than or equal to 60 ms change from baseline with Torsade de pointes or polymorphic ventricular tachycardia or signs/symptoms of serious arrhythmia. Withhold XALKORI in patients who develop QTc greater than 500 ms on at least 2 separate ECGs until recovery to a QTc less than or equal to 480 ms, then resume XALKORI at a reduced dose as described in Table 2 [see  Dosage and Administration (2.3)    and   Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)  ]  .



    5.4 Bradycardia



   Symptomatic bradycardia can occur in patients receiving XALKORI. Across clinical trials, bradycardia occurred in 205 (12.3%) of 1669 patients treated with XALKORI. A total of 242 (14.9%) patients had a heart rate less than 50 beats per minute. In Studies 1 and 2, Grade 3 syncope occurred in 2.0% of XALKORI-treated patients and in 0.6% of the chemotherapy-treated patients.  



 Avoid using XALKORI in combination with other agents known to cause bradycardia (e.g., beta-blockers, non-dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, clonidine and digoxin) to the extent possible. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure regularly. In cases of symptomatic bradycardia that is not life-threatening, hold XALKORI until recovery to asymptomatic bradycardia or to a heart rate of 60 bpm or above, re-evaluate the use of concomitant medications, and adjust the dose of XALKORI. Permanently discontinue for life-threatening bradycardia due to XALKORI; however, if associated with concomitant medications known to cause bradycardia or hypotension, hold XALKORI until recovery to asymptomatic bradycardia or to a heart rate of 60 bpm or above, and if concomitant medications can be adjusted or discontinued, restart XALKORI at 250 mg once daily with frequent monitoring [see  Dosage and Administration (2.3)  and  Adverse Reactions (6)  ]  .



    5.5 Severe Visual Loss



   Across all clinical trials, the incidence of Grade 4 visual field defect with vision loss was 0.2% (4/1669). Optic atrophy and optic nerve disorder have been reported as potential causes of vision loss.  



  Discontinue XALKORI in patients with new onset of severe visual loss (best corrected vision less than 20/200 in one or both eyes). Perform an ophthalmological evaluation consisting of best corrected visual acuity, retinal photographs, visual fields, optical coherence tomography (OCT) and other evaluations as appropriate for new onset of severe visual loss. There is insufficient information to characterize the risks of resumption of XALKORI in patients with a severe visual loss; a decision to resume XALKORI should consider the potential benefits to the patient.  



    5.6 Embryofetal Toxicity



   Based on its mechanism of action, XALKORI can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of crizotinib in pregnant rats during organogenesis at exposures similar to those observed with the maximum recommended human dose resulted in embryotoxicity and fetotoxicity. Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus. Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with XALKORI and for at least 45 days following the final dose [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.1  ,  8.3)  ]  .  
