    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   Review the Full Prescribing Information for trametinib prior to initiation of TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib. The following serious adverse reactions of trametinib as a single agent, which may occur when TAFINLAR is used in combination with trametinib, are not described in the Full Prescribing Information for TAFINLAR:  



 *     Retinal vein occlusion  
 *     Interstitial lung disease  
   *    New primary malignancies, cutaneous and non-cutaneous, can occur when TAFINLAR is administered as a single agent or in combination with trametinib. Monitor patients for new malignancies prior to initiation of therapy, while on therapy, and following discontinuation of TAFINLAR or the combination therapy. (  5.1  ,  2.3  ) 
 *    Tumor Promotion in BRAF Wild-Type Melanoma: Increased cell proliferation can occur with BRAF inhibitors. (  5.2  ) 
 *    Hemorrhage: Major hemorrhagic events can occur in patients receiving TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib. Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding. (  5.3  ) 
 *    Venous Thromboembolism: Deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism can occur in patients receiving TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib. (  5.4  ,  2.3  ) 
 *    Cardiomyopathy: Assess LVEF before treatment with TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib, after one month of treatment, then every 2 to 3 months thereafter. (  5.5  ,  2.3  ) 
 *    Ocular Toxicities: Perform ophthalmologic evaluation for any visual disturbances. (  5.6  ,  2.3  ) 
 *    Serious Febrile Reactions: Incidence and severity of pyrexia are increased with TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib. (  5.7  ,  2.3  ) 
 *    Serious Skin Toxicity: Monitor for skin toxicities and for secondary infections. Discontinue for intolerable Grade 2, or Grade 3 or 4 rash not improving within 3 weeks despite interruption of TAFINLAR. (  5.8  ,  2.3  ) 
 *    Hyperglycemia: Monitor serum glucose levels in patients with pre-existing diabetes or hyperglycemia. (  5.9  ) 
 *    Glucose-6-Phosphate Dehydrogenase Deficiency: Closely monitor for hemolytic anemia. (  5.10  ) 
 *    Embryofetal Toxicity: Can cause fetal harm. Advise females of reproductive potential of potential risk to a fetus. TAFINLAR may render hormonal contraceptives less effective and an alternative method of contraception should be used. (  5.11  ,  8.1  ) 
      EXCERPT:   
 

   5.1 New Primary Malignancies



  New primary malignancies, cutaneous and non-cutaneous, can occur when TAFINLAR is administered as a single agent or when used in combination with trametinib.



  Cutaneous Malignancies:  



 TAFINLAR results in an increased incidence of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, keratoacanthoma, and melanoma. TAFINLAR when used in combination with trametinib results in an increased incidence of basal cell carcinoma.  



 In Trial 1, cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas and keratoacanthomas (cuSCC) occurred in 7% (14/187) of patients treated with TAFINLAR and in none of the patients treated with dacarbazine.



 Across clinical trials of TAFINLAR (N = 586), the incidence of cuSCC was 11%. The median time to first cuSCC was 9 weeks (range: 1 to 53 weeks). Of those patients who developed new cuSCC, approximately 33% developed one or more cuSCC with continued administration of TAFINLAR. The median time between diagnosis of the first cuSCC and the second cuSCC was 6 weeks.



 In Trial 1, the incidence of new primary malignant melanomas was 2% (3/187) for patients receiving TAFINLAR while no dacarbazine-treated patient was diagnosed with new primary malignant melanoma.



  In Trial 2, the incidence of basal cell carcinoma was increased in patients receiving TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib: 9% (5/55) of patients receiving TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib compared with 2% (1/53) of patients receiving TAFINLAR as a single agent. The range of time to diagnosis of basal cell carcinoma was 28 to 249 days in patients receiving TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib and was 197 days for the patient receiving TAFINLAR as a single agent.  



  Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), including keratoacanthoma, occurred in 7% of patients receiving TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib and 19% of patients receiving TAFINLAR as a single agent. The range of time to diagnosis of cuSCC was 136 to197 days in the combination arm and was 9 to 197 days in the arm receiving TAFINLAR as a single agent.  



  New primary melanoma occurred in 2% (1/53) of patients receiving TAFINLAR as a single agent and in none of the 55 patients receiving TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib.  



  Perform dermatologic evaluations prior to initiation of TAFINLAR as a single agent or in combination with trametinib, every 2 months while on therapy, and for up to 6 months following discontinuation of TAFINLAR. No dose modifications of TAFINLAR or trametinib are required in patients who develop new primary cutaneous malignancies.  



   Non-cutaneous Malignancies:    



  Based on its mechanism of action, TAFINLAR may promote the growth and development of malignancies with activation of RAS through mutation or other mechanisms [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]  . In patients receiving TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib four cases of non-cutaneous malignancies were identified: KRAS mutation-positive pancreatic adenocarcinoma (n = 1), recurrent NRAS mutation-positive colorectal carcinoma (n = 1), head and neck carcinoma (n = 1), and glioblastoma (n = 1). Monitor patients receiving the combination closely for signs or symptoms of non-cutaneous malignancies. Permanently discontinue TAFINLAR for RAS mutation-positive non-cutaneous malignancies. If used in combination with trametinib, no dose modification of trametinib is required for patients who develop non-cutaneous malignancies.  



    5.2 Tumor Promotion in BRAF Wild-Type Melanoma



  In vitro experiments have demonstrated paradoxical activation of MAP-kinase signaling and increased cell proliferation in BRAF wild-type cells which are exposed to BRAF inhibitors. Confirm evidence of BRAF V600E or V600K  mutation status prior to initiation of TAFINLAR as  a single agent or combination therapy   [see Indications and Usage (1), Dosage and Administration (2.1)]  .



     5.3 Hemorrhage  



   Hemorrhages, including major hemorrhages defined as symptomatic bleeding in a critical area or organ, can occur when TAFINLAR is used in combination with trametinib.  



  In Trial 2, treatment with TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib resulted in an increased incidence and severity of any hemorrhagic event: 16% (9/55) of patients treated with TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib compared with 2% (1/53) of patients treated with TAFINLAR as a single agent. The major hemorrhagic events of intracranial or gastric hemorrhage occurred in 5% (3/55) of patients treated with TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib compared with none of the 53 patients treated with TAFINLAR as a single agent. Intracranial hemorrhage was fatal in 4% (2/55) of patients receiving TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib.  



  Permanently discontinue TAFINLAR and trametinib for all Grade 4 hemorrhagic events and for any Grade 3 hemorrhagic events that do not improve. Withhold TAFINLAR for Grade 3 hemorrhagic events; if improved resume at a lower dose level. Withhold trametinib for up to 3 weeks for Grade 3 hemorrhagic events; if improved, resume at a lower dose level.  



     5.4 Venous Thromboembolism  



   Venous thromboembolism can occur when TAFINLAR is used in combination with trametinib.  



  In Trial 2, treatment with TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib resulted in an increased incidence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE): 7% (4/55) of patients treated with TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib compared with none of the 53 patients treated with TAFINLAR as a single agent. Pulmonary embolism was fatal in 2% (1/55) of patients receiving TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib.  



  Advise patients to immediately seek medical care if they develop symptoms of DVT or PE, such as shortness of breath, chest pain, or arm or leg swelling. Permanently discontinue TAFINLAR and trametinib for life-threatening PE. Withhold trametinib and continue TAFINLAR at the same dose for uncomplicated DVT or PE; if improved within 3 weeks, trametinib may be resumed at a lower dose level [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]    .



     5.5 Cardiomyopathy  



   Cardiomyopathy can occur when TAFINLAR is used in combination with trametinib and with trametinib as a single agent [refer to Full Prescribing Information for trametinib]  .  



  In Trial 2, cardiomyopathy occurred in 9% (5/55) of patients treated with TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib and in none of patients treated with TAFINLAR as a single agent. The median time to onset of cardiomyopathy in patients treated with TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib was 86 days (range: 27 to 253 days). Cardiomyopathy was identified within the first month of treatment with TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib in two of five patients. Development of cardiomyopathy resolved in all five patients following dose reduction (4/55) and/or dose interruption (1/55).  



  Across clinical trials of TAFINLAR administered in combination with trametinib (N = 202), 8% of patients developed evidence of cardiomyopathy (decrease in LVEF below institutional lower limits of normal with an absolute decrease in LVEF >=10% below baseline). Two percent demonstrated a decrease in LVEF below institutional lower limits of normal with an absolute decrease in LVEF of >=20% below baseline.  



  Assess LVEF by echocardiogram or multigated acquisition (MUGA) scan before initiation of TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib, one month after initiation, and then at 2- to 3-month intervals while on treatment with the combination. Withhold treatment with trametinib and continue TAFINLAR at the same dose if absolute LVEF value decreases by 10% from pretreatment values and is less than the lower limit of normal. For symptomatic cardiomyopathy or persistent, asymptomatic LV dysfunction that does not resolve within 4 weeks, permanently discontinue trametinib and withhold TAFINLAR. Resume TAFINLAR at the same dose level upon recovery of cardiac function [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]    .



     5.6 Ocular Toxicities  



    Retinal Pigment Epithelial Detachment (RPED):    



  Retinal pigment epithelial detachments (RPED) can occur when TAFINLAR is used in combination with trametinib and with trametinib as a single agent [refer to Full Prescribing Information for trametinib]  . Retinal detachments resulting from trametinib are often bilateral and multifocal, occurring in the macular region of the retina.  



  In Trial 2, ophthalmologic examinations including retinal evaluation were performed pretreatment and at regular intervals during treatment. RPED occurred in 2% (1/55) of patients receiving TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib. Across clinical trials of TAFINLAR administered in combination with trametinib (N = 202), the incidence of RPED was 1% (2/202).  



  Perform ophthalmological evaluation at any time a patient reports visual disturbances and compare with baseline, if available. If TAFINLAR is used in combination with trametinib, do not modify the dose of TAFINLAR. Withhold trametinib if RPED is diagnosed. If resolution of the RPED is documented on repeat ophthalmological evaluation within 3 weeks, resume trametinib at a lower dose level. Discontinue trametinib if no improvement after 3 weeks [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)].    



   Uveitis and Iritis:    



  Uveitis and iritis can occur when TAFINLAR is administered as a single agent or when used in combination with trametinib.  



  Uveitis (including iritis) occurred in 1% (6/586) of patients treated with TAFINLAR as a single agent and uveitis occurred in 1% (2/202) of patients treated with TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib. Symptomatic treatment employed in clinical trials included steroid and mydriatic ophthalmic drops. Monitor patients for visual signs and symptoms of uveitis (e.g., change in vision, photophobia, eye pain). If diagnosed, withhold TAFINLAR for up to 6 weeks until uveitis/iritis resolves to Grade 0-1. If TAFINLAR is used in combination with trametinib, do not modify the dose of trametinib.  



    5.7 Serious Febrile Reactions



   Serious febrile reactions and fever of any severity complicated by hypotension, rigors or chills, dehydration, or renal failure, can occur when TAFINLAR is administered as a single agent or when used in combination with trametinib. The incidence and severity of pyrexia are increased when TAFINLAR is used in combination with trametinib compared with TAFINLAR as a single agent [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)].    



 In Trial 1, the incidence of fever (serious and non-serious) was 28% in patients treated with TAFINLAR and 10% in patients treated with dacarbazine. In patients treated with TAFINLAR, the median time to initial onset of fever (any severity) was 11 days (range: 1 to 202 days) and the median duration of fever was 3 days (range: 1 to 129 days). Serious febrile reactions and fever of any severity complicated by hypotension, rigors or chills occurred in 3.7% (7/187) of patients treated with TAFINLAR and in none of the 59 patients treated with dacarbazine.  



  In Trial 2, the incidence of fever (serious and non-serious) was 71% (39/55) in patients treated with TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib and 26% (14/53) in patients treated with TAFINLAR as a single agent. Serious febrile reactions and fever of any severity complicated by hypotension, rigors or chills occurred in 25% (14/55) of patients treated with TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib compared with 2% (1/53) of patients treated with TAFINLAR as a single agent. Fever was complicated with chills/rigors in 51% (28/55), dehydration in 9% (5/55), renal failure in 4% (2/55), and syncope in 4% (2/55) of patients in Trial 2.  



  In patients treated with TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib, the median time to initial onset of fever was 30 days compared with 19 days in patients treated with TAFINLAR as a single agent; the median duration of fever was 6 days with the combination compared with 4 days with TAFINLAR as a single agent.  



  Across clinical trials of TAFINLAR administered in combination with trametinib (N = 202), the incidence of pyrexia was 57% (116/202).  



 Withhold TAFINLAR for fever of 101.3oF or higher. Withhold trametinib for any fever higher than 104oF. Withhold TAFINLAR, and trametinib if used in combination, for any serious febrile reaction or fever complicated by hypotension, rigors or chills, dehydration, or renal failure and evaluate for signs and symptoms of infection. Refer to Table 2 for recommended dose modifications for adverse reactions [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)].  Prophylaxis with antipyretics may be required when resuming TAFINLAR or trametinib.  



     5.8 Serious Skin Toxicity  



   Serious skin toxicity can occur when TAFINLAR is used in combination with trametinib and with trametinib as a single agent [refer to Full Prescribing Information for trametinib]  .  



  In Trial 2, the incidence of any skin toxicity was similar for patients receiving TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib (65% [36/55]) compared with patients receiving TAFINLAR as a single agent (68% [36/53]). The median time to onset of skin toxicity in patients treated with TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib was 37 days (range: 1 to 225 days) and median time to resolution of skin toxicity was 33 days (range: 3 to 421 days). No patient required dose reduction or permanent discontinuation of TAFINLAR or trametinib for skin toxicity.  



  Across clinical trials of TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib (N = 202), severe skin toxicity and secondary infections of the skin requiring hospitalization occurred in 2.5% (5/202) of patients treated with TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib.  



  Withhold TAFINLAR, and trametinib if used in combination, for intolerable or severe skin toxicity. TAFINLAR and trametinib may be resumed at lower dose levels in patients with improvement or recovery from skin toxicity within 3 weeks [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]  .  



    5.9 Hyperglycemia



   Hyperglycemia can occur when TAFINLAR is administered as a single agent or when used in combination with trametinib  .



 In Trial 1, 5 of 12 patients with a history of diabetes required more intensive hypoglycemic therapy while taking TAFINLAR. The incidence of Grade 3 hyperglycemia based on laboratory values was 6% (12/187) in patients treated with TAFINLAR compared with none of the dacarbazine-treated patients.



  In Trial 2, the incidence of Grade 3 hyperglycemia based on laboratory values was 5% (3/55) in patients treated with TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib compared with 2% (1/53) in patients treated with TAFINLAR as a single agent.  



  Monitor serum glucose levels as clinically appropriate when TAFINLAR is administered as a single agent or when used in combination with trametinib in patients with pre-existing diabetes or hyperglycemia. Advise patients to report symptoms of severe hyperglycemia such as excessive thirst or any increase in the volume or frequency of urination  .



    5.10 Glucose-6-Phosphate Dehydrogenase Deficiency



  TAFINLAR, which contains a sulfonamide moiety, confers a potential risk of hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Closely observe patients with G6PD deficiency for signs of hemolytic anemia.



    5.11 Embryofetal Toxicity



  Based on its mechanism of action, TAFINLAR can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Dabrafenib was teratogenic and embryotoxic in rats at doses three times greater than the human exposure at the recommended clinical dose. If this drug is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]  .



 Advise female patients of reproductive potential to use a highly effective non-hormonal method of contraception since TAFINLAR can render hormonal contraceptives ineffective , during treatment and for at least 2 weeks after treatment with TAFINLAR or for 4 months after treatment with TAFINLAR in combination with trametinib  . Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they become pregnant, or if pregnancy is suspected, while taking TAFINLAR [see Drug Interactions (7.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.6)].  
