    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Serious hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) and skin reactions have been reported with glycopeptide antibacterial agents, including DALVANCE; exercise caution in patients with known hypersensitivity to glycopeptides. (  5.1  ) 
 *  Rapid intravenous infusion of glycopeptide antibacterial agents can cause reactions. (  5.2  ) 
 *  ALT elevations with DALVANCE treatment were reported in clinical trials. (  5.3  ) 
 *   Clostridium difficile -associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with nearly all systemic antibacterial agents, including DALVANCE. Evaluate if diarrhea occurs. (  5.4  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Hypersensitivity Reactions



  Serious hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) and skin reactions have been reported in patients treated with DALVANCE. If an allergic reaction occurs, treatment with DALVANCE should be discontinued. Before using DALVANCE, inquire carefully about previous hypersensitivity reactions to glycopeptides, and due to the possibility of cross-sensitivity, exercise caution in patients with a history of glycopeptide allergy [see Patient Counseling Information (  17  )]  .



    5.2 Infusion-Related Reactions



  DALVANCE is administered via intravenous infusion, using a total infusion time of 30 minutes to minimize the risk of infusion-related reactions. Rapid intravenous infusions of DALVANCE can cause reactions that resemble "Red-Man Syndrome," including flushing of the upper body, urticaria, pruritus, and/or rash. Stopping or slowing the infusion may result in cessation of these reactions.



    5.3 Hepatic Effects



  In Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials, more DALVANCE- than comparator-treated subjects with normal baseline transaminase levels had post-baseline alanine aminotransferase (ALT) elevation greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Overall, abnormalities in liver tests (ALT, AST, bilirubin) were reported with similar frequency in the DALVANCE and comparator arms [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )].  



    5.4 Clostridium difficile-Associated Diarrhea



   Clostridium difficile  -associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported in users of nearly all systemic antibacterial drugs, including DALVANCE, with severity ranging from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents can alter the normal flora of the colon, and may permit overgrowth of C. difficile  .



  C. difficile  produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin-producing strains of C. difficile  cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antibacterial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial use. Careful medical history is necessary because CDAD has been reported to occur more than 2 months after the administration of antibacterial agents.



 If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibacterial use not directed against C. difficile  should be discontinued, if possible. Appropriate measures such as fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibacterial treatment of C. difficile  , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated.



    5.5 Development of Drug-Resistant Bacteria



  Prescribing DALVANCE in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug-resistant bacteria.
