    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  AMPYRA can cause seizures; the risk of seizures increases with increasing AMPYRA doses; discontinue AMPYRA and do not restart if a seizure occurs (  5.1  ) 
 *  AMPYRA should not be taken with other forms of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP, fampridine), since the active ingredient is the same (  5.3  ) 
 *  AMPYRA can cause anaphylaxis. Discontinue and do not restart AMPYRA if this occurs (  5.4  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Seizures



  AMPYRA can cause seizures. Increased incidence of seizures has been observed at 20 mg twice daily in controlled clinical studies of 9-14 weeks duration with dalfampridine in patients with MS. In open label extension trials in MS patients, the incidence of seizures during treatment with dalfampridine 15 mg twice daily (1.7/100PY) was over 4 times higher than the incidence during treatment with 10 mg twice daily (0.4/100PY). In the post-marketing period seizures have been reported. The majority of seizures occurred at the recommended dose and in patients without a history of seizures, and generally within days to weeks of starting therapy.



 AMPYRA has not been evaluated in patients with a history of seizures or with evidence of epileptiform activity on an EEG, as these patients were excluded from clinical trials. The risk of seizures in patients with epileptiform activity on an EEG is unknown, and could be substantially higher than that observed in AMPYRA clinical studies. AMPYRA should be discontinued and not restarted in patients who experience a seizure while on treatment. AMPYRA is contraindicated in patients with a history of seizures [see  Contraindications (4)  ]  .



    5.2 Renal Impairment



  AMPYRA is eliminated through the kidneys primarily as unchanged drug [see  Clinical Pharmacology (12.4)  ].  



 Because patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (CrCl <=50mL/min) would require a dose lower than 10 mg twice daily and no strength smaller than 10 mg is available, AMPYRA is contraindicated in these patients [see  Contraindications (4)  ]  .



 In patients with mild renal impairment (CrCl 51-80 mL/min), AMPYRA plasma levels may approach those seen at a dose of 15 mg twice daily, a dose that may be associated with an increased risk of seizures [see  Warnings and Precautions (5.1)  ]  .



    5.3 Concurrent Treatment with Other Forms of 4-Aminopyridine



  AMPYRA should not be taken with other forms of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP, fampridine) since the active ingredient is the same. Patients should discontinue use of any product containing 4-aminopyridine prior to initiating treatment with AMPYRA in order to reduce the potential for dose-related adverse reactions.



    5.4 Anaphylaxis



  AMPYRA can cause anaphylaxis and severe allergic reactions. Signs and symptoms have included respiratory compromise, urticaria, and angioedema of the throat and or tongue. Patients should be informed of the signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis and instructed to discontinue AMPYRA and seek immediate medical care should these signs and symptoms occur (  17.3  ).



    5.5 Urinary Tract Infections



  Urinary tract infections (UTIs) were reported more frequently as adverse reactions in controlled studies in patients receiving AMPYRA 10 mg twice daily (12%) as compared to placebo (8%). UTIs in AMPYRA-treated patients should be evaluated and treated as clinically indicated.
