    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *     Hypotension: Before initiating FARXIGA, assess volume status and correct hypovolemia in the elderly, in patients with renal impairment or low systolic blood pressure, and in patients on diuretics. Monitor for signs and symptoms during therapy.  (5.1  ,  6.1)   
 *     Impairment in renal function: Monitor renal function during therapy.  (5.2)   
 *     Hypoglycemia: In patients taking insulin or an insulin secretagogue with FARXIGA, consider a lower dose of insulin or the insulin secretagogue to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia.  (5.3)   
 *     Genital mycotic infections: Monitor and treat if indicated.  (5.4)   
 *     Increased LDL-C: Monitor and treat per standard of care.  (5.5)   
 *     Bladder Cancer: An imbalance in bladder cancers was observed in clinical trials. FARXIGA should not be used in patients with active bladder cancer and should be used with caution in patients with a prior history of bladder cancer.  (5.6)   
 *     Macrovascular outcomes: There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with FARXIGA or any other antidiabetic drug.  (5.7)   
    
 

   5.1 Hypotension



  FARXIGA causes intravascular volume contraction. Symptomatic hypotension can occur after initiating FARXIGA [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  particularly in patients with impaired renal function (eGFR less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m  2  ), elderly patients, or patients on loop diuretics. Before initiating FARXIGA in patients with one or more of these characteristics, volume status should be assessed and corrected. Monitor for signs and symptoms of hypotension after initiating therapy.



    5.2 Impairment in Renal Function



  FARXIGA increases serum creatinine and decreases eGFR. Elderly patients and patients with impaired renal function may be more susceptible to these changes. Adverse reactions related to renal function can occur after initiating FARXIGA [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Renal function should be evaluated prior to initiation of FARXIGA and monitored periodically thereafter.



    5.3 Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use with Insulin and Insulin Secretagogues



  Insulin and insulin secretagogues are known to cause hypoglycemia. FARXIGA can increase the risk of hypoglycemia when combined with insulin or an insulin secretagogue [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Therefore, a lower dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue may be required to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia when these agents are used in combination with FARXIGA.



    5.4 Genital Mycotic Infections



  FARXIGA increases the risk of genital mycotic infections. Patients with a history of genital mycotic infections were more likely to develop genital mycotic infections [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Monitor and treat appropriately.



    5.5 Increases in Low-Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol (LDL-C)



  Increases in LDL-C occur with FARXIGA [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Monitor LDL-C and treat per standard of care after initiating FARXIGA.



    5.6 Bladder Cancer



  Across 22 clinical studies, newly diagnosed cases of bladder cancer were reported in 10/6045 patients (0.17%) treated with FARXIGA and 1/3512 patient (0.03%) treated with placebo/comparator. After excluding patients in whom exposure to study drug was less than one year at the time of diagnosis of bladder cancer, there were 4 cases with FARXIGA and no cases with placebo/comparator. Bladder cancer risk factors and hematuria (a potential indicator of pre-existing tumors) were balanced between treatment arms at baseline. There were too few cases to determine whether the emergence of these events is related to FARXIGA.



 There are insufficient data to determine whether FARXIGA has an effect on pre-existing bladder tumors. Consequently, FARXIGA should not be used in patients with active bladder cancer. In patients with prior history of bladder cancer, the benefits of glycemic control versus unknown risks for cancer recurrence with FARXIGA should be considered.



    5.7 Macrovascular Outcomes



  There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with FARXIGA or any other antidiabetic drug.
