    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



     EXCERPT:    *  If infection occurs while on Ferriprox, interrupt therapy and monitor the ANC more frequently. (5.1) 
 *  Ferriprox can cause fetal harm. Women should be advised of the potential hazard to the fetus and to avoid pregnancy while on this drug. (5.2) 
    
 

   5.1 Agranulocytosis/Neutropenia



  Fatal agranulocytosis can occur with Ferriprox use. Ferriprox can also cause neutropenia, which may foreshadow agranulocytosis. Measure the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) before starting Ferriprox therapy and monitor the ANC weekly on therapy.



 Interrupt Ferriprox therapy if neutropenia develops (ANC < 1.5 x 10  9  /L).



 Interrupt Ferriprox if infection develops, and monitor the ANC more frequently.



 Advise patients taking Ferriprox to immediately interrupt therapy and report to their physician if they experience any symptoms indicative of infection.



 In pooled clinical trials, the incidence of agranulocytosis was 1.7% of patients. The mechanism of Ferriprox-associated agranulocytosis is unknown. Agranulocytosis and neutropenia usually resolve upon discontinuation of Ferriprox, but there have been reports of agranulocytosis leading to death.



 Implement a plan to monitor for and to manage agranulocytosis/neutropenia prior to initiating Ferriprox treatment.



  For neutropenia (ANC < 1.5 x 10  9  /L and > 0.5 x 10  9  /L):  



 Instruct the patient to immediately discontinue Ferriprox and all other medications with a potential to cause neutropenia.



 Obtain a complete blood cell (CBC) count, including a white blood cell (WBC) count corrected for the presence of nucleated red blood cells, an absolute neutrophil count (ANC), and a platelet count daily until recovery (ANC >= 1.5 x 10  9  /L).   



  For agranulocytosis (ANC < 0.5 x 10  9  /L):  



    Consider hospitalization and other management as clinically appropriate.



 Do not resume Ferriprox in patients who have developed agranulocytosis unless potential benefits outweigh potential risks. Do not rechallenge patients who develop neutropenia with Ferriprox unless potential benefits outweigh potential risks.



    5.2 Embryofetal Toxicity



  Based on evidence of genotoxicity and developmental toxicity in animal studies, Ferriprox can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. In animal studies, administration of deferiprone during the period of organogenesis resulted in embryofetal death and malformations at doses lower than equivalent human clinical doses. If Ferriprox is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking Ferriprox, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Women of reproductive potential should be advised to avoid pregnancy when taking Ferriprox [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.1)  and  Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)  ]  .   



    5.3 Laboratory Tests



   Serum Liver Enzyme Activities  



    In clinical studies, 7.5% of 642 subjects treated with Ferriprox developed increased ALT values. Four (0.62%) Ferriprox-treated subjects discontinued the drug due to increased serum ALT levels and 1 (0.16%) due to an increase in both ALT and AST.



 Monitor serum ALT values monthly during therapy with Ferriprox, and consider interruption of therapy if there is a persistent increase in the serum transaminase levels.



  Plasma Zinc Concentration  



    Decreased plasma zinc concentrations have been observed on Ferriprox therapy. Monitor plasma zinc, and supplement in the event of a deficiency.
