    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Same Active Ingredient: Patients receiving Prolia should not receive XGEVA  (r)  (  5.1  ) 
 *  Hypersensitivity including anaphylactic reactions may occur. Discontinue permanently if a clinically significant reaction occurs (  5.2  ) 
 *  Hypocalcemia: Must be corrected before initiating Prolia. May worsen, especially in patients with renal impairment. Adequately supplement patients with calcium and vitamin D (  5.3  ) 
 *  Osteonecrosis of the jaw: Has been reported with Prolia. Monitor for symptoms (  5.4  ) 
 *  Atypical femoral fractures: Have been reported. Evaluate patients with thigh or groin pain to rule out a femoral fracture (  5.5  ) 
 *  Serious infections including skin infections: May occur, including those leading to hospitalization. Advise patients to seek prompt medical attention if they develop signs or symptoms of infection, including cellulitis (  5.6  ) 
 *  Dermatologic reactions: Dermatitis, rashes, and eczema have been reported. Consider discontinuing Prolia if severe symptoms develop (  5.7  ) 
 *  Severe Bone, Joint, Muscle Pain may occur. Discontinue use if severe symptoms develop (  5.8  ) 
 *  Suppression of bone turnover: Significant suppression has been demonstrated. Monitor for consequences of bone oversuppression (  5.9  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Drug Products with Same Active Ingredient



  Prolia contains the same active ingredient (denosumab) found in Xgeva. Patients receiving Prolia should not receive Xgeva.



    5.2 Hypersensitivity



  Clinically significant hypersensitivity including anaphylaxis has been reported with Prolia. Symptoms have included hypotension, dyspnea, throat tightness, facial and upper airway edema, pruritus, and urticaria. If an anaphylactic or other clinically significant allergic reaction occurs, initiate appropriate therapy and discontinue further use of Prolia [see Contraindications (  4.3  ), Adverse Reactions (  6.2  )]  .



    5.3 Hypocalcemia and Mineral Metabolism



   Hypocalcemia may be exacerbated by the use of Prolia. Pre-existing hypocalcemia must be corrected prior to initiating therapy with Prolia. In patients predisposed to hypocalcemia and disturbances of mineral metabolism (e.g. history of hypoparathyroidism, thyroid surgery, parathyroid surgery, malabsorption syndromes, excision of small intestine, severe renal impairment [creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min] or receiving dialysis), clinical monitoring of calcium and mineral levels (phosphorus and magnesium) is highly recommended within 14 days of Prolia injection. In some postmarketing cases, hypocalcemia persisted for weeks or months and required frequent monitoring and intravenous and/or oral calcium replacement, with or without vitamin D.  



 Hypocalcemia following Prolia administration is a significant risk in patients with severe renal impairment [creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min] or receiving dialysis. These patients may also develop marked elevations of serum parathyroid hormone (PTH).   Instruct all patients with severe renal impairment, including those receiving dialysis, about the symptoms of hypocalcemia and the importance of maintaining calcium levels with adequate calcium and vitamin D supplementation.



 Adequately supplement all patients with calcium and vitamin D [see Dosage and Administration (  2.1  ), Contraindications (  4.1  ), Adverse Reactions (  6.1  ), and Patient Counseling Information (  17.3  )]  .



    5.4 Osteonecrosis of the Jaw



   Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ), which can occur spontaneously, is generally associated with tooth extraction and/or local infection with delayed healing. ONJ has been reported in patients receiving denosumab [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )].  A routine oral exam should be performed by the prescriber prior to initiation of Prolia treatment. A dental examination with appropriate preventive dentistry is recommended prior to treatment with Prolia in patients with risk factors for ONJ such as invasive dental procedures (e.g. tooth extraction, dental implants, oral surgery), diagnosis of cancer, concomitant therapies (e.g. chemotherapy, corticosteroids, angiogenesis inhibitors), poor oral hygiene, and co-morbid disorders (e.g. periodontal and/or other pre-existing dental disease, anemia, coagulopathy, infection, ill-fitting dentures). Good oral hygiene practices should be maintained during treatment with Prolia. Concomitant administration of drugs associated with ONJ may increase the risk of developing ONJ.  



 For patients requiring invasive dental procedures, clinical judgment of the treating physician and/or oral surgeon should guide the management plan of each patient based on individual benefit-risk assessment.



 Patients who are suspected of having or who develop ONJ while on Prolia should receive care by a dentist or an oral surgeon. In these patients, extensive dental surgery to treat ONJ may exacerbate the condition. Discontinuation of Prolia therapy should be considered based on individual benefit-risk assessment.



    5.5 Atypical Subtrochanteric and Diaphyseal Femoral Fractures



  Atypical low-energy or low trauma fractures of the shaft have been reported in patients receiving Prolia [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )]  . These fractures can occur anywhere in the femoral shaft from just below the lesser trochanter to above the supracondylar flare and are transverse or short oblique in orientation without evidence of comminution. Causality has not been established as these fractures also occur in osteoporotic patients who have not been treated with anti-resorptive agents.



 Atypical femoral fractures most commonly occur with minimal or no trauma to the affected area. They may be bilateral and many patients report prodromal pain in the affected area, usually presenting as dull, aching thigh pain, weeks to months before a complete fracture occurs.  A number of reports note that patients were also receiving treatment with glucocorticoids (e.g. prednisone) at the time of fracture.



 During Prolia treatment, patients should be advised to report new or unusual thigh, hip, or groin pain. Any patient who presents with thigh or groin pain should be suspected of having an atypical fracture and should be evaluated to rule out an incomplete femur fracture. Patient presenting with an atypical femur fracture should also be assessed for symptoms and signs of fracture in the contralateral limb. Interruption of Prolia therapy should be considered, pending a risk/benefit assessment, on an individual basis.



    5.6 Serious Infections



  In a clinical trial of over 7800 women with postmenopausal osteoporosis, serious infections leading to hospitalization were reported more frequently in the Prolia group than in the placebo group [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )]  . Serious skin infections, as well as infections of the abdomen, urinary tract, and ear, were more frequent in patients treated with Prolia. Endocarditis was also reported more frequently in Prolia-treated patients. The incidence of opportunistic infections was similar between placebo and Prolia groups, and the overall incidence of infections was similar between the treatment groups. Advise patients to seek prompt medical attention if they develop signs or symptoms of severe infection, including cellulitis. 



 Patients on concomitant immunosuppressant agents or with impaired immune systems may be at increased risk for serious infections. Consider the benefit-risk profile in such patients before treating with Prolia. In patients who develop serious infections while on Prolia, prescribers should assess the need for continued Prolia therapy.



    5.7 Dermatologic Adverse Reactions



  In a large clinical trial of over 7800 women with postmenopausal osteoporosis, epidermal and dermal adverse events such as dermatitis, eczema, and rashes occurred at a significantly higher rate in the Prolia group compared to the placebo group. Most of these events were not specific to the injection site [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )]  . Consider discontinuing Prolia if severe symptoms develop.



    5.8 Musculoskeletal Pain



   In post-marketing experience, severe and occasionally incapacitating bone, joint, and/or muscle pain has been reported in patients taking Prolia [see Adverse Reactions (  6.2  )]  . The time to onset of symptoms varied from one day to several months after starting Prolia. Consider discontinuing use if severe symptoms develop [see Patient Counseling Information (  17.8  )]  .  



    5.9 Suppression of Bone Turnover



  In clinical trials in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis, treatment with Prolia resulted in significant suppression of bone remodeling as evidenced by markers of bone turnover and bone histomorphometry [see Clinical Pharmacology (  12.2  ) and Clinical Studies (  14.1  )]  . The significance of these findings and the effect of long-term treatment with Prolia are unknown. The long-term consequences of the degree of suppression of bone remodeling observed with Prolia may contribute to adverse outcomes such as osteonecrosis of the jaw, atypical fractures, and delayed fracture healing. Monitor patients for these consequences.
