    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  NORTHERA can cause supine hypertension and may increase cardiovascular risk if supine hypertension is not well-managed (  5.1  ). 
 *  Hyperpyrexia and confusion (  5.2  ) 
 *  May exacerbate symptoms in patients with existing ischemic heart disease, arrhythmias, and congestive heart failure (  5.3  ) 
 *  Allergic reactions (  5.4  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Supine Hypertension



  NORTHERA therapy may cause or exacerbate supine hypertension in patients with NOH. Patients should be advised to elevate the head of the bed when resting or sleeping. Monitor blood pressure, both in the supine position and in the recommended head-elevated sleeping position. Reduce or discontinue NORTHERA if supine hypertension persists. If supine hypertension is not well-managed, NORTHERA may increase the risk of cardiovascular events.



    5.2 Hyperpyrexia and Confusion



  Post-marketing cases of a symptom complex resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) have been reported with NORTHERA use during post-marketing surveillance in Japan.  Observe patients carefully when the dosage of NORTHERA is changed or when concomitant levodopa is reduced abruptly or discontinued, especially if the patient is receiving neuroleptics.



 NMS is an uncommon but life-threatening syndrome characterized by fever or hyperthermia, muscle rigidity, involuntary movements, altered consciousness, and mental status changes.  The early diagnosis of this condition is important for the appropriate management of these patients.



    5.3 Ischemic Heart Disease, Arrhythmias, and Congestive Heart Failure



  NORTHERA may exacerbate existing ischemic heart disease, arrhythmias, and congestive heart failure.  Careful consideration should be given to this potential risk prior to initiating therapy in patients with these conditions.



    5.4 Allergic Reactions



  This product contains FD&C Yellow No. 5 (tartrazine) which may cause allergic-type reactions (including bronchial asthma) in certain susceptible persons. Although the overall incidence of FD&C Yellow No. 5 (tartrazine) sensitivity in the general population is low, it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity.
