    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *   Thyroid C-cell Tumors: See Boxed Warning (  5.1  ). 
 *   Pancreatitis: Has been reported in clinical trials. Discontinue promptly if pancreatitis is suspected. Do not restart if pancreatitis is confirmed. Consider other antidiabetic therapies in patients with history of pancreatitis (  5.2  ). 
 *   Hypoglycemia: When TRULICITY is used with an insulin secretagogue (e.g., a sulfonylurea) or insulin, consider lowering the dose of the sulfonylurea or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia (  5.3  ). 
 *   Hypersensitivity Reactions: Discontinue TRULICITY if suspected. Monitor and treat promptly per standard of care until signs and symptoms resolve (  5.4  ). 
 *   Renal Impairment: Monitor renal function in patients with renal impairment reporting severe adverse gastrointestinal reactions (  5.5  ). 
 *   Macrovascular outcomes: There have been no studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with TRULICITY or any other antidiabetic drug (  5.7  ). 
    
 

   5.1 Risk of Thyroid C-cell Tumors



     In male and female rats, dulaglutide causes a dose-related and treatment-duration-dependent increase in the incidence of thyroid C-cell tumors (adenomas and carcinomas) after lifetime exposure [see Nonclinical Toxicology (  13.1  )]  . Glucagon-like peptide (GLP-1) receptor agonists have induced thyroid C-cell adenomas and carcinomas in mice and rats at clinically relevant exposures. It is unknown whether TRULICITY will cause thyroid C-cell tumors, including medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC), in humans, as the human relevance of dulaglutide-induced rodent thyroid C-cell tumors has not been determined.



    One case of MTC was reported in a patient treated with TRULICITY. This patient had pretreatment calcitonin levels approximately 8 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Cases of MTC in patients treated with liraglutide, another GLP-1 receptor agonist, have been reported in the postmarketing period; the data in these reports are insufficient to establish or exclude a causal relationship between MTC and GLP-1 receptor agonist use in humans.



    TRULICITY is contraindicated in patients with a personal or family history of MTC or in patients with MEN 2. Counsel patients regarding the potential risk for MTC with the use of TRULICITY and inform them of symptoms of thyroid tumors (e.g. a mass in the neck, dysphagia, dyspnea, persistent hoarseness).



    Routine monitoring of serum calcitonin or using thyroid ultrasound is of uncertain value for early detection of MTC in patients treated with TRULICITY. Such monitoring may increase the risk of unnecessary procedures, due to the low test specificity for serum calcitonin and a high background incidence of thyroid disease. Significantly elevated serum calcitonin value may indicate MTC and patients with MTC usually have calcitonin values >50 ng/L. If serum calcitonin is measured and found to be elevated, the patient should be further evaluated. Patients with thyroid nodules noted on physical examination or neck imaging should also be further evaluated.



    5.2 Pancreatitis



  In Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical studies, 12 (3.4 cases per 1000 patient years) pancreatitis related adverse reactions were reported in patients exposed to TRULICITY versus 3 in non-incretin comparators (2.7 cases per 1000 patient years). An analyses of adjudicated events revealed 5 cases of confirmed pancreatitis in patients exposed to TRULICITY (1.4 cases per 1000 patient years) versus 1 case in non-incretin comparators (0.88 cases per 1000 patient years).



 After initiation of TRULICITY, observe patients carefully for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis, including persistent severe abdominal pain. If pancreatitis is suspected, promptly discontinue TRULICITY. If pancreatitis is confirmed, TRULICITY should not be restarted. TRULICITY has not been evaluated in patients with a prior history of pancreatitis. Consider other antidiabetic therapies in patients with a history of pancreatitis.



    5.3 Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use of Insulin Secretagogues or Insulin



  The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when TRULICITY is used in combination with insulin secretagogues (e.g., sulfonylureas) or insulin. Patients may require a lower dose of sulfonylurea or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia in this setting [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )]  .



    5.4 Hypersensitivity Reactions



  Systemic hypersensitivity reactions were observed in patients receiving TRULICITY in clinical trials [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )].  If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, the patient should discontinue TRULICITY and promptly seek medical advice.



    5.5 Renal Impairment



  In patients treated with GLP-1 receptor agonists, there have been postmarketing reports of acute renal failure and worsening of chronic renal failure, which may sometimes require hemodialysis. Some of these events were reported in patients without known underlying renal disease. A majority of reported events occurred in patients who had experienced nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or dehydration. Because these reactions may worsen renal function, use caution when initiating or escalating doses of TRULICITY in patients with renal impairment. Monitor renal function in patients with renal impairment reporting severe adverse gastrointestinal reactions [see Dosage and Administration (  2.3  ), Use in Specific Populations (  8.7  )].  



    5.6 Severe Gastrointestinal Disease



  Use of TRULICITY may be associated with gastrointestinal adverse reactions, sometimes severe [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )]  . TRULICITY has not been studied in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease, including severe gastroparesis, and is therefore not recommended in these patients.



    5.7 Macrovascular Outcomes



  There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with TRULICITY or any other antidiabetic drug.
