    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



  EXCERPT:   . Anaphylaxis and Hypersensitivity Reactions: Life-threatening anaphylaxis and hypersensitivity reactions have been observed in some patients during treatment with Vimizim. If anaphylaxis or severe hypersensitivity reactions occur, immediately stop the infusion and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Pre-treatment with antihistamines with or without antipyretics is recommended prior to the start of infusion (  5.1  ). 



 . Risk of Acute Respiratory Complications: Patients with acute febrile or respiratory illness may be at higher risk of life-threatening complications from hypersensitivity reactions. Careful consideration should be given to the patient's clinical status prior to administration of Vimizim and consider delaying the Vimizim infusion (  5.2  ).



 



   5.1 Anaphylaxis and Hypersensitivity Reactions



  Anaphylaxis and hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in patients treated with Vimizim. In premarketing clinical trials, 18 of 235 (7.7%) patients treated with Vimizim experienced signs and symptoms consistent with anaphylaxis. These 18 patients experienced 26 anaphylactic reactions during infusion with signs and symptoms including cough, erythema, throat tightness, urticaria, flushing, cyanosis, hypotension, rash, dyspnea, chest discomfort, and gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, abdominal pain, retching, and vomiting) in conjunction with urticaria. These cases of anaphylaxis occurred as early as 30 minutes from the start of infusion and up to three hours after infusion.  Anaphylaxis occurred as late into treatment as the 47  th  infusion.



 In clinical trials with Vimizim, 44 of 235 (18.7%) patients experienced hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis. Hypersensitivity reactions have occurred as early as 30 minutes from the start of infusion but as late as six days after infusion. Frequent symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions (occurring in more than 2 patients) included anaphylactic reactions, urticaria, peripheral edema, cough, dyspnea, and flushing.



 Due to the potential for anaphylaxis, appropriate medical support should be readily available when Vimizim is administered. Observe patients closely for an appropriate period of time after administration of Vimizim, taking into account the time to onset of anaphylaxis seen in premarketing clinical trials. Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis, and instruct them to seek immediate medical care should signs and symptoms occur. 



 Because of the potential for hypersensitivity reactions, administer antihistamines with or without antipyretics prior to infusion. Management of hypersensitivity reactions should be based on the severity of the reaction and include slowing or temporary interruption of the infusion and/or administration of additional antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids for mild reactions. However, if severe hypersensitivity reactions occur, immediately stop the infusion of Vimizim and initiate appropriate treatment.



 Consider the risks and benefits of re-administering Vimizim following a severe reaction.



    5.2 Risk of Acute Respiratory Complications



  Patients with acute febrile or respiratory illness at the time of Vimizim infusion may be at higher risk of life-threatening complications from hypersensitivity reactions. Careful consideration should be given to the patient's clinical status prior to administration of Vimizim and consider delaying the Vimizim infusion.



 Sleep apnea is common in MPS IVA patients.  Evaluation of airway patency should be considered prior to initiation of treatment with Vimizim.  Patients using supplemental oxygen or continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) during sleep should have these treatments readily available during infusion in the event of an acute reaction, or extreme drowsiness/sleep induced by antihistamine use.



    5.3 Spinal or Cervical Cord Compression



  Spinal or cervical cord compression (SCC) is a known and serious complication of MPS IVA and may occur as part of the natural history of the disease. In clinical trials, SCC was observed both in patients receiving Vimizim and patients receiving placebo.  Patients with MPS IVA should be monitored for signs and symptoms of SCC (including back pain, paralysis of limbs below the level of compression, urinary and fecal incontinence) and given appropriate clinical care.
