

    BOXED WARNING: WARNING: RISK OF ANAPHYLAXIS

    WARNING: RISK OF ANAPHYLAXIS  

    Life-threatening anaphylactic reactions have occurred in some patients during Vimizim infusions. Anaphylaxis, presenting as cough, erythema, throat tightness, urticaria, flushing, cyanosis, hypotension, rash, dyspnea, chest discomfort, and gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, abdominal pain, retching, and vomiting) in conjunction with urticaria, have been reported to occur during Vimizim infusions, regardless of duration of the course of treatment. Closely observe patients during and after Vimizim administration and be prepared to manage anaphylaxis. Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis and have them seek immediate medical care should symptoms occur.  Patients with acute respiratory illness may be at risk of serious acute exacerbation of their respiratory compromise due to hypersensitivity reactions, and require additional monitoring   [see Warnings and Precautions (  5.1  ,   5.2  ) and Adverse Reactions (  6  )]  .  



   EXCERPT:     WARNING: RISK OF ANAPHYLAXIS  



     See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning    .



   Life-threatening anaphylactic reactions have occurred in some patients during Vimizim infusions. Anaphylaxis, presenting as cough, erythema, throat tightness, urticaria, flushing, cyanosis, hypotension, rash, dyspnea, chest discomfort, and gastrointestinal symptoms in conjunction with urticaria, have been reported to occur during infusions, regardless of duration of the course of treatment. Closely observe patients during and after Vimizim administration and be prepared to manage anaphylaxis. Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis and have them seek immediate medical care should symptoms occur.  Patients with acute respiratory illness may be at risk of serious acute exacerbation of their respiratory compromise due to hypersensitivity reactions, and require additional     monitoring (      5.1      ,       5.2      ,       6      ).  
