    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *    Hepatotoxicity: Monitor liver function before and during therapy. (  5.2  ) 
 *    Thrombotic/Thromboembolic Complications: Portal vein thrombosis has been reported in patients with chronic liver disease receiving PROMACTA. Monitor platelet counts regularly. (  5.3  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Hepatic Decompensation in Patients with Chronic Hepatitis C



  In patients with chronic hepatitis C, PROMACTA in combination with interferon and ribavirin may increase the risk of hepatic decompensation. In two controlled clinical trials in patients with chronic hepatitis C and thrombocytopenia, ascites and encephalopathy occurred more frequently on the arm receiving treatment with PROMACTA plus antivirals (7%) than the placebo plus antivirals arm (4%). Patients with low albumin levels (less than 3.5 g/dL) or Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) score greater than or equal to 10 at baseline had a greater risk for hepatic decompensation on the arm receiving treatment with PROMACTA plus antivirals. Discontinue PROMACTA if antiviral therapy is discontinued.



    5.2 Hepatotoxicity



  PROMACTA can cause liver enzyme elevations [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]  . Measure serum ALT, AST, and bilirubin prior to initiation of PROMACTA, every 2 weeks during the dose adjustment phase, and monthly following establishment of a stable dose. PROMACTA inhibits UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT)1A1 and organic anion-transporting polypeptide (OATP)1B1, which may lead to indirect hyperbilirubinemia. If bilirubin is elevated, perform fractionation. Evaluate abnormal serum liver tests with repeat testing within 3 to 5 days. If the abnormalities are confirmed, monitor serum liver tests weekly until resolved or stabilized. Discontinue PROMACTA if ALT levels increase to greater than or equal to 3 x ULN in patients with normal liver function or greater than or equal to 3 x baseline in patients with pre-treatment elevations in transaminases and are:



 *    progressively increasing, or 
 *    persistent for greater than or equal to 4 weeks, or 
 *    accompanied by increased direct bilirubin, or 
 *    accompanied by clinical symptoms of liver injury or evidence for hepatic decompensation. 
    If the potential benefit for reinitiating treatment with PROMACTA is considered to outweigh the risk for hepatotoxicity, then consider cautiously reintroducing PROMACTA and measure serum liver tests weekly during the dose adjustment phase. Hepatotoxicity may reoccur if PROMACTA is reinitiated. If liver test abnormalities persist, worsen or recur, then permanently discontinue PROMACTA.
 

    5.3 Thrombotic/Thromboembolic Complications



  In two controlled clinical trials in patients with chronic hepatitis C and thrombocytopenia, 3% (31/955) treated with PROMACTA experienced a thrombotic event compared with 1% (5/484) on placebo. The majority of events were of the portal venous system (1% in patients treated with PROMACTA versus less than 1% for placebo).



 Thrombotic/thromboembolic complications may result from increases in platelet counts with PROMACTA. Reported thrombotic/thromboembolic complications included both venous and arterial events and were observed at low and at normal platelet counts.



 Consider the potential for an increased risk of thromboembolism when administering PROMACTA to patients with known risk factors for thromboembolism (e.g., Factor V Leiden, ATIII deficiency, antiphospholipid syndrome, chronic liver disease). To minimize the risk for thrombotic/thromboembolic complications, do not use PROMACTA in an attempt to normalize platelet counts. Follow the dose adjustment guidelines to achieve and maintain target platelet counts [see Dosage and Administration (2.1, 2.2, 2.3)]  .



 In a controlled trial in patients with chronic liver disease and thrombocytopenia not related to ITP undergoing elective invasive procedures (N = 292), the risk of thrombotic events was increased in patients treated with 75 mg of PROMACTA once daily. Seven thrombotic complications (six patients) were reported in the group that received PROMACTA and three thrombotic complications were reported in the placebo group (two patients). All of the thrombotic complications reported in the group that received PROMACTA were portal vein thrombosis (PVT). Symptoms of PVT included abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. Five of the six patients in the group that received PROMACTA experienced a thrombotic complication within 30 days of completing treatment with PROMACTA and at a platelet count above 200 x 10  9  /L. The risk of portal venous thrombosis was increased in thrombocytopenic patients with chronic liver disease treated with 75 mg of PROMACTA once daily for 2 weeks in preparation for invasive procedures.



    5.4 Cataracts



  In the three controlled clinical trials in adults with chronic ITP, cataracts developed or worsened in 15 (7%) patients who received 50 mg of PROMACTA daily and 8 (7%) placebo-group patients. In the extension trial, cataracts developed or worsened in 4% of patients who underwent ocular examination prior to therapy with PROMACTA. In the two controlled clinical trials in patients with chronic hepatitis C and thrombocytopenia, cataracts developed or worsened in 8% patients treated with PROMACTA and 5% patients treated with placebo.



 Cataracts were observed in toxicology studies of eltrombopag in rodents [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2)]  . Perform a baseline ocular examination prior to administration of PROMACTA and, during therapy with PROMACTA, regularly monitor patients for signs and symptoms of cataracts.
