    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  New onset or worsening renal impairment: Can include acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome. Assess creatinine clearance (CLcr), urine glucose and urine protein before initiating treatment with STRIBILD. Monitor CLcr, urine glucose, and urine protein in all patients. Monitor serum phosphorus in patients at risk for renal impairment. Avoid administering STRIBILD with concurrent or recent use of nephrotoxic drugs. (  5.3  ) 
 *  Avoid coadministration with other anti-retroviral products: Do not use with products containing any of the components of STRIBILD (cobicistat, elvitegravir, emtricitabine, and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate), including ATRIPLA, COMPLERA, EMTRIVA, TRUVADA, TYBOST, VIREAD, or VITEKTA; with drugs containing lamivudine; or with drugs or regimens containing ritonavir. Do not administer in combination with HEPSERA. (  5.4  ) 
 *  Risk of adverse reactions or loss of virologic response due to drug interactions: The concomitant use of STRIBILD and other drugs may result in known or potentially significant drug interactions, some of which may lead to loss of therapeutic effect of STRIBILD and possible development of resistance; and possible clinically significant adverse reactions from greater exposures of concomitant drugs. (  5.5  ) 
 *  Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD): Consider monitoring BMD in patients with a history of pathologic fracture or other risk factors of osteoporosis or bone loss. (  5.6  ) 
 *  Redistribution/accumulation of body fat: Observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. (  5.7  ) 
 *  Immune reconstitution syndrome: May necessitate further evaluation and treatment. (  5.8  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Lactic Acidosis/Severe Hepatomegaly with Steatosis



  Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs, including tenofovir DF, a component of STRIBILD, in combination with other antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women. Obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for liver disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Treatment with STRIBILD should be suspended in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).



    5.2 Patients Coinfected with HIV-1 and HBV



  It is recommended that all patients with HIV-1 be tested for the presence of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) before initiating antiretroviral therapy. STRIBILD is not approved for the treatment of chronic HBV infection and the safety and efficacy of STRIBILD have not been established in patients coinfected with HBV and HIV-1. Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B have been reported in patients who are coinfected with HBV and HIV-1 and have discontinued emtricitabine or tenofovir DF, two of the components of STRIBILD. In some patients infected with HBV and treated with EMTRIVA, the exacerbations of hepatitis B were associated with liver decompensation and liver failure. Patients who are coinfected with HIV-1 and HBV should be closely monitored with both clinical and laboratory follow-up for at least several months after stopping treatment with STRIBILD. If appropriate, initiation of anti-hepatitis B therapy may be warranted.



    5.3 New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment



  Renal impairment, including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome (renal tubular injury with severe hypophosphatemia), has been reported with the use of tenofovir DF, a component of STRIBILD, and with the use of STRIBILD [see  Adverse Reactions (6.2)  ]  .



  In the clinical trials of STRIBILD over 144 weeks, 13 (1.9%) subjects in the STRIBILD group (N=701), 8 (2.3%) subjects in the ATV + RTV + TRUVADA group (N=355) and no subjects in the ATRIPLA group (N = 352) discontinued study drug due to a renal adverse reaction. Of these discontinuations, 8 in the STRIBILD group and 1 in the ATV + RTV + TRUVADA group occurred during the first 48 weeks. Four (0.6%) subjects who received STRIBILD developed laboratory findings consistent with proximal renal tubular dysfunction leading to discontinuation of STRIBILD during the first 48 weeks of treatment. Two of the four subjects had renal impairment (i.e. estimated creatinine clearance less than 70 mL per minute) at baseline. The laboratory findings in these 4 subjects improved but did not completely resolve in all subjects upon discontinuation of STRIBILD. Renal replacement therapy was not required for these subjects. One (0.3%) subject who received ATV + RTV + TRUVADA developed laboratory findings consistent with proximal renal tubular dysfunction leading to discontinuation of ATV + RTV + TRUVADA after Week 96.  



 STRIBILD should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent. (e.g., high-dose or multiple non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)) [see  Drug Interactions (7.4)  ]  . Cases of acute renal failure after initiation of high dose or multiple NSAIDs have been reported in HIV-infected patients with risk factors for renal dysfunction who appeared stable on tenofovir DF. Some patients required hospitalization and renal replacement therapy. Alternatives to NSAIDs should be considered, if needed, in patients at risk for renal dysfunction.



 Persistent or worsening bone pain, pain in extremities, fractures and/or muscular pain or weakness may be manifestations of proximal renal tubulopathy and should prompt an evaluation of renal function in at-risk patients.



 Estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose and urine protein should be documented in all patients prior to initiating therapy. Initiation of STRIBILD in patients with estimated creatinine clearance below 70 mL per minute is not recommended.



 Routine monitoring of estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein should be performed during STRIBILD therapy in all patients. Additionally, serum phosphorus should be measured in patients at risk for renal impairment. Although cobicistat (a component of STRIBILD) may cause modest increases in serum creatinine and modest declines in estimated creatinine clearance without affecting renal glomerular function [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  , patients who experience a confirmed increase in serum creatinine of greater than 0.4 mg per dL from baseline should be closely monitored for renal safety.



 The emtricitabine and tenofovir DF components of STRIBILD are primarily excreted by the kidney. STRIBILD should be discontinued if estimated creatinine clearance declines below 50 mL per minute as dose interval adjustment required for emtricitabine and tenofovir DF cannot be achieved with the fixed-dose combination tablet.



    5.4 Avoid Use with Other Antiretroviral Products



  STRIBILD is indicated for use as a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection and coadministration with other antiretroviral products is not recommended.



 STRIBILD is not recommended for coadministration with the following:



 *   cobicistat (TYBOST);  
 *   elvitegravir (VITEKTA);  
 *   products containing emtricitabine or tenofovir DF (ATRIPLA, COMPLERA, EMTRIVA, TRUVADA, VIREAD);  
 *   products containing lamivudine (COMBIVIR, EPIVIR, EPIVIR-HBV, EPZICOM, TRIUMEQ, TRIZIVIR);  
 *   adefovir dipivoxil (HEPSERA);  
 *   products containing ritonavir (NORVIR, KALETRA)  
       5.5 Risk of Adverse Reactions or Loss of Virologic Response Due to Drug Interactions
 

   The concomitant use of STRIBILD and other drugs may result in known or potentially significant drug interactions, some of which may lead to [see  Contraindications (4)  ,  Drug Interactions (7.5)  ]:    



 *   Loss of therapeutic effect of STRIBILD and possible development of resistance.  
 *   Possible clinically significant adverse reactions from greater exposures of concomitant drugs.  
     See  Table 6  for steps to prevent or manage these possible and known significant drug interactions, including dosing recommendations [see  Drug Interactions (7.5)  ]  . Consider the potential for drug interactions prior to and during STRIBILD therapy; review concomitant medications during STRIBILD therapy; and monitor for the adverse reactions associated with the concomitant drugs.  
 

    5.6 Bone Effects of Tenofovir DF



   Bone Mineral Density:  



 In clinical trials in HIV-1 infected adults, tenofovir DF (a component of STRIBILD) was associated with slightly greater decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) and increases in biochemical markers of bone metabolism, suggesting increased bone turnover relative to comparators. Serum parathyroid hormone levels and 1.25 Vitamin D levels were also higher in subjects receiving tenofovir DF. For additional information, see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and consult the VIREAD prescribing information.



 The effects of tenofovir DF-associated changes in BMD and biochemical markers on long-term bone health and future fracture risk are unknown. Assessment of BMD should be considered for HIV-1 infected patients who have a history of pathologic bone fracture or other risk factors for osteoporosis or bone loss. Although the effect of supplementation with calcium and vitamin D was not studied, such supplementation may be beneficial in all patients. If bone abnormalities are suspected, then appropriate consultation should be obtained.



    Mineralization Defects:  



 Cases of osteomalacia associated with proximal renal tubulopathy, manifested as bone pain or pain in extremities and which may contribute to fractures, have been reported in association with the use of tenofovir DF [see  Adverse Reactions (6.2)  ]  . Arthralgias and muscle pain or weakness have also been reported in cases of proximal renal tubulopathy. Hypophosphatemia and osteomalacia secondary to proximal renal tubulopathy should be considered in patients at risk of renal dysfunction who present with persistent or worsening bone or muscle symptoms while receiving products containing tenofovir DF [see  Warnings and Precautions (5.3)  ]  .



    5.7 Fat Redistribution



  Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and "cushingoid appearance" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established.



    5.8 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome



  Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including STRIBILD. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections [such as Mycobacterium avium  infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jirovecii  pneumonia (PCP), or tuberculosis], which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment.



 Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barre syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution, however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment.
