    5  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *   Hypotension: Before initiating JARDIANCE assess and correct volume status in patients with renal impairment, the elderly, in patients with low systolic blood pressure, and in patients on diuretics. Monitor for signs and symptoms during therapy. (  5.1  ) 
 *   Impairment in renal function: Monitor renal function during therapy. More frequent monitoring is recommended in patients with eGFR below 60 mL/min/1.73 m  2  (  5.2  ) 
 *   Hypoglycemia: Consider lowering the dose of insulin secretagogue or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia when initiating JARDIANCE (  5.3  ) 
 *   Genital mycotic infections: Monitor and treat as appropriate (  5.4  ) 
 *   Urinary tract infections: Monitor and treat as appropriate (  5.5  ) 
 *   Increased LDL-C: Monitor and treat as appropriate (  5.6  ) 
 *   Macrovascular outcomes: There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with JARDIANCE (  5.7  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Hypotension



  JARDIANCE causes intravascular volume contraction. Symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiating JARDIANCE [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )]  particularly in patients with renal impairment, the elderly, in patients with low systolic blood pressure, and in patients on diuretics. Before initiating JARDIANCE, assess for volume contraction and correct volume status if indicated. Monitor for signs and symptoms of hypotension after initiating therapy and increase monitoring in clinical situations where volume contraction is expected [see Use in Specific Populations (  8.5  )]  .



    5.2 Impairment in Renal Function



  JARDIANCE increases serum creatinine and decreases eGFR [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )]  . The risk of impaired renal function with JARDIANCE is increased in elderly patients and patients with moderate renal impairment. More frequent monitoring of renal function is recommended in these patients [see Use in Specific Populations (  8.5  ,  8.6  )]  . Renal function should be evaluated prior to initiating JARDIANCE and periodically thereafter.



    5.3 Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use with Insulin and Insulin Secretagogues



  Insulin and insulin secretagogues are known to cause hypoglycemia. The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when JARDIANCE is used in combination with insulin secretagogues (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )]  . Therefore, a lower dose of the insulin secretagogue or insulin may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with JARDIANCE.



    5.4 Genital Mycotic Infections



  JARDIANCE increases the risk for genital mycotic infections [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )]  . Patients with a history of chronic or recurrent genital mycotic infections were more likely to develop mycotic genital infections. Monitor and treat as appropriate.



    5.5 Urinary Tract Infections



  JARDIANCE increases the risk for urinary tract infections [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )]  . Monitor and treat as appropriate.



    5.6 Increased Low-Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol (LDL-C)



  Increases in LDL-C can occur with JARDIANCE [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )]  . Monitor and treat as appropriate.



    5.7 Macrovascular Outcomes



  There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with JARDIANCE or any other antidiabetic drug.
