     5   WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS  



   EXCERPT:    *   Neutropenia : Monitor peripheral blood cell counts and adjust dose as appropriate (  2.2  ,  5.1  ,  6  ) 
 *   Peripheral Neuropathy : Monitor for signs of neuropathy. Manage with dose delay and adjustment (  2.2  ,  5.2  ,  6  ) 
 *   Embryo-Fetal Toxicity : Fetal harm can occur when administered to a pregnant woman (  5.3  ) (  8.1  ) 
 *   QT Prolongation : Monitor for prolonged QT intervals in patients with congestive heart failure, bradyarrhythmias, drugs known to prolong the QT interval, and electrolyte abnormalities. Avoid in patients with congenital long QT syndrome (  5.4  ) 
    
 

    5.1   Neutropenia  



  Severe neutropenia (ANC < 500/mm  3  ) lasting more than one week occurred in 12% (62/503) of patients in Study 1, leading to discontinuation in <1% of patients [ see Adverse Reactions (     6     )  ]. Patients with alanine aminotransferase or aspartate aminotransferase > 3 * ULN (upper limit of normal) experienced a higher incidence of Grade 4 neutropenia and febrile neutropenia than patients with normal aminotransferase levels. Patients with bilirubin > 1.5 * ULN also had a higher incidence of Grade 4 neutropenia and febrile neutropenia.



 Monitor complete blood counts prior to each dose; increase the frequency of monitoring in patients who develop Grade 3 or 4 cytopenias. Delay administration of HALAVEN and reduce subsequent doses in patients who experience febrile neutropenia or Grade 4 neutropenia lasting longer than 7 days [ see Dosage and Administration (     2.2     )  ]. Clinical studies of HALAVEN did not include patients with baseline neutrophil counts below 1,500/mm  3  .



     5.2   Peripheral Neuropathy  



  Grade 3 peripheral neuropathy occurred in 8% (40/503) of patients, and Grade 4 in 0.4% (2/503) of patients in Study 1. Peripheral neuropathy was the most common toxicity leading to discontinuation of HALAVEN (5% of patients; 24/503). Neuropathy lasting more than one year occurred in 5% (26/503) of patients. Twenty-two percent (109/503) of patients developed a new or worsening neuropathy that had not recovered within a median follow-up duration of 269 days (range 25-662 days). Monitor patients closely for signs of peripheral motor and sensory neuropathy. Withhold HALAVEN in patients who experience Grade 3 or 4 peripheral neuropathy until resolution to Grade 2 or less [ see    Dosage and Administration (     2.2     )  ].



     5.3   Embryo-Fetal Toxicity  



  There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of HALAVEN in pregnant women. HALAVEN is a microtubule inhibitor; therefore, it is expected to cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Embryo-fetal toxicity and teratogenicity occurred in rats that received eribulin mesylate at approximately half of the recommended human dose based on body surface area. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if a patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, she should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [see Use in Specific Populations (     8.1     )]  .



     5.4   QT Prolongation  



  In an uncontrolled open-label ECG study in 26 patients, QT prolongation was observed on Day 8, independent of eribulin concentration, with no QT prolongation observed on Day 1. ECG monitoring is recommended if therapy is initiated in patients with congestive heart failure, bradyarrhythmias, drugs known to prolong the QT interval, including Class Ia and III antiarrhythmics, and electrolyte abnormalities. Correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to initiating HALAVEN and monitor these electrolytes periodically during therapy. Avoid HALAVEN in patients with congenital long QT syndrome.
