    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Suicidal Behavior and Ideation: Monitor for suicidal thoughts or behavior. (  5.1  ) 
 *  Serious Dermatologic Reactions, Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), Anaphylactic Reactions and Angioedema: Monitor and discontinue if another cause cannot be established. (  5.2  ,  5.3  ,  5.4  ) 
 *  Hyponatremia: Monitor sodium levels in patients at risk or patients experiencing hyponatremia symptoms. (  5.5  ) 
 *  Neurological Adverse Reactions: Monitor for dizziness, disturbance in gait and coordination, somnolence, fatigue, cognitive dysfunction, and visual changes. Use caution when driving or operating machinery. (  5.6  ) 
 *  Withdrawal of APTIOM: Withdraw APTIOM gradually to minimize the risk of increased seizure frequency and status epilepticus. (  2.6  ,  5.7  ) 
 *  Drug Induced Liver Injury: Discontinue APTIOM in patients with jaundice or evidence of significant liver injury. (  5.8  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Suicidal Behavior and Ideation



  Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including APTIOM, increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication. Patients treated with any AED for any indication should be monitored for the emergence or worsening of depression, suicidal thoughts or behavior, and/or any unusual changes in mood or behavior.



 Pooled analyses of 199 placebo-controlled clinical trials (mono- and adjunctive therapy) of 11 different AEDs showed that patients randomized to one of the AEDs had approximately twice the risk (adjusted Relative Risk 1.8, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.2, 2.7) of suicidal thinking or behavior compared to patients randomized to placebo. In these trials, which had a median treatment duration of 12 weeks, the estimated incidence of suicidal behavior or ideation among 27,863 AED-treated patients was 0.43%, compared to 0.24% among 16,029 placebo-treated patients, representing an increase of approximately one case of suicidal thinking or behavior for every 530 patients treated. There were four suicides in drug-treated patients in the trials and none in placebo-treated patients, but the number of events is too small to allow any conclusion about drug effect on suicide.



 The increased risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with AEDs was observed as early as one week after starting treatment with AEDs and persisted for the duration of treatment assessed. Because most trials included in the analysis did not extend beyond 24 weeks, the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior beyond 24 weeks could not be assessed.



 The risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior was generally consistent among drugs in the data analyzed. The finding of increased risk with AEDs of varying mechanisms of action and across a range of indications suggests that the risk applies to all AEDs used for any indication. The risk did not vary substantially by age (5-100 years) in the clinical trials analyzed.



   Table 2  shows absolute and relative risk by indication for all evaluated AEDs.



 Table 2: Risk of Suicidal Thoughts or Behaviors by Indication for Antiepileptic Drugs in the Pooled Analysis 
 Indication            Placebo Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients  Drug Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients  Relative Risk: Incidence of Events in Drug Patients/Incidence in Placebo Patients  Risk Differences: Additional Drug Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients   
 Epilepsy              1.0                   3.4                   3.5                   2.4                    
 Psychiatric           5.7                   8.5                   1.5                   2.9                    
 Other                 1.0                   1.8                   1.9                   0.9                    
 Total                 2.4                   4.3                   1.8                   1.9                    
           The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials in patients with epilepsy than in clinical trials in patients with psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for epilepsy and psychiatric indications.
 

 Anyone considering prescribing APTIOM or any other AED must balance this risk with the risk of untreated illness. Epilepsy and many other illnesses for which AEDs are prescribed are themselves associated with morbidity and mortality and an increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior. Should suicidal thoughts and behavior emerge during treatment, the prescriber needs to consider whether the emergence of these symptoms in any given patient may be related to the illness being treated.



 Patients, their caregivers, and families should be informed that AEDs increase the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior and should be advised of the need to be alert for the emergence or worsening of the signs and symptoms of depression; any unusual changes in mood or behavior; or the emergence of suicidal thoughts, behavior, or thoughts about self-harm. Behaviors of concern should be reported immediately to healthcare providers.



    5.2 Serious Dermatologic Reactions



  Serious dermatologic reactions including Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS) have been reported in association with APTIOM use. Serious and sometimes fatal dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) and SJS, have been reported in patients using oxcarbazepine or carbamazepine which are chemically related to APTIOM. The reporting rate of these reactions associated with oxcarbazepine use exceeds the background incidence rate estimates by a factor of 3- to 10-fold. Risk factors for development of serious dermatologic reactions with APTIOM use have not been identified.



 If a patient develops a dermatologic reaction while taking APTIOM, discontinue APTIOM use, unless the reaction is clearly not drug-related. Patients with a prior dermatologic reaction with either oxcarbazepine or APTIOM should not be treated with APTIOM [see Contraindications (  4  )].  



    5.3 Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)/Multiorgan Hypersensitivity



  Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), also known as Multiorgan Hypersensitivity, has been reported in patients taking APTIOM. DRESS may be fatal or life-threatening. DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, and/or lymphadenopathy, in association with other organ system involvement, such as hepatitis, nephritis, hematological abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis sometimes resembling an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. Because this disorder is variable in its expression, other organ systems not noted here may be involved. It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity, such as fever or lymphadenopathy, may be present even though rash is not evident. If such signs or symptoms are present, the patient should be evaluated immediately. APTIOM should be discontinued and not be resumed if an alternative etiology for the signs or symptoms cannot be established. Patients with a prior DRESS reaction with either oxcarbazepine or APTIOM should not be treated with APTIOM [see Contraindications (  4  )].  



    5.4 Anaphylactic Reactions and Angioedema



  Rare cases of anaphylaxis and angioedema have been reported in patients taking APTIOM. Anaphylaxis and angioedema associated with laryngeal edema can be fatal. If a patient develops any of these reactions after treatment with APTIOM, the drug should be discontinued. Patients with a prior anaphylactic-type reaction with either oxcarbazepine or APTIOM should not be treated with APTIOM [see Contraindications (  4  )]  .



    5.5 Hyponatremia



  Clinically significant hyponatremia (sodium <125 mEq/L) can develop in patients taking APTIOM. In the controlled adjunctive epilepsy trials, 4/415 patients (1.0%) treated with 800 mg and 6/410 (1.5%) patients treated with 1200 mg of APTIOM had at least one serum sodium value less than 125 mEq/L, compared to none of the patients assigned to placebo. A higher percentage of APTIOM-treated patients (5.1%) than placebo-treated patients (0.7%) experienced decreases in sodium values of more than 10 mEq/L. These effects were dose-related and generally appeared within the first 8 weeks of treatment (as early as after 3 days). Serious, life-threatening complications were reported with APTIOM-associated hyponatremia (as low as 112 mEq/L) including seizures, severe nausea/vomiting leading to dehydration, severe gait instability, and injury. Some patients required hospitalization and discontinuation of APTIOM. Concurrent hypochloremia was also present in patients with hyponatremia. Depending on the severity of hyponatremia, the dose of APTIOM may need to be reduced or discontinued. Hyponatremia was also observed in monotherapy trials.



 Measurement of serum sodium and chloride levels should be considered during maintenance treatment with APTIOM, particularly if the patient is receiving other medications known to decrease serum sodium levels and should be performed if symptoms of hyponatremia develop (e.g., nausea/vomiting, malaise, headache, lethargy, confusion, irritability, muscle weakness/spasms, obtundation, or increase in seizure frequency or severity).



    5.6 Neurological Adverse Reactions



   Dizziness and Disturbance in Gait and Coordination  



 APTIOM causes dose-related increases in adverse reactions related to dizziness and disturbance in gait and coordination (dizziness, ataxia, vertigo, balance disorder, gait disturbance, nystagmus, and abnormal coordination) [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )]  . In controlled adjunctive epilepsy trials, these events were reported in 26% and 38% of patients randomized to receive APTIOM at doses of 800 mg and 1200 mg/day, respectively, compared to 12% of placebo-treated patients. Events related to dizziness and disturbance in gait and coordination were more often serious in APTIOM-treated patients than in placebo-treated patients (2% vs. 0%), and more often led to study withdrawal in APTIOM-treated patients than in placebo-treated patients (9% vs. 0.7%). There was an increased risk of these adverse reactions during the titration period (compared to the maintenance period) and there also may be an increased risk of these adverse reactions in patients 60 years of age and older compared to younger adults. Nausea and vomiting also occurred with these events. Dizziness and disturbance in gait and coordination were also observed in monotherapy trials.



 The incidence of dizziness was greater with the concomitant use of APTIOM and carbamazepine compared to the use of APTIOM without carbamazepine (up to 37% vs. 19%, respectively). Therefore, consider dosage modifications of both APTIOM and carbamazepine if these drugs are used concomitantly [see Dosage and Administration (  2.3  )].  



    Somnolence and Fatigue  



 APTIOM causes dose-dependent increases in somnolence and fatigue-related adverse reactions (fatigue, asthenia, malaise, hypersomnia, sedation, and lethargy). In the controlled adjunctive epilepsy trials, these events were reported in 13% of placebo patients, 16% of patients randomized to receive 800 mg/day APTIOM, and 28% of patients randomized to receive 1200 mg/day APTIOM. Somnolence and fatigue-related events were serious in 0.3% of APTIOM-treated patients (and 0 placebo patients) and led to discontinuation in 3% of APTIOM-treated patients (and 0.7% of placebo-treated patients). Somnolence and fatigue were also observed in monotherapy trials.



    Cognitive Dysfunction  



 APTIOM causes dose-dependent increases in cognitive dysfunction-related events (memory impairment, disturbance in attention, amnesia, confusional state, aphasia, speech disorder, slowness of thought, disorientation, and psychomotor retardation). In the controlled adjunctive epilepsy trials, these events were reported in 1% of placebo patients, 4% of patients randomized to receive 800 mg/day APTIOM, and 7% of patients randomized to receive 1200 mg/day APTIOM. Cognitive dysfunction-related events were serious in 0.2% of APTIOM-treated patients (and 0.2% of placebo patients) and led to discontinuation in 1% of APTIOM-treated patients (and 0.5% of placebo-treated patients). Cognitive dysfunction events were also observed in monotherapy trials.



    Visual Changes  



 APTIOM causes dose-dependent increases in events related to visual changes including diplopia, blurred vision, and impaired vision. In the controlled adjunctive epilepsy trials, these events were reported in 16% of patients randomized to receive APTIOM compared to 6% of placebo patients. Eye events were serious in 0.7% of APTIOM-treated patients (and 0 placebo patients) and led to discontinuation in 4% of APTIOM-treated patients (and 0.2% of placebo-treated patients). There was an increased risk of these adverse reactions during the titration period (compared to the maintenance period) and also in patients 60 years of age and older (compared to younger adults). The incidence of diplopia was greater with the concomitant use of APTIOM and carbamazepine compared to the use of APTIOM without carbamazepine (up to 16% vs. 6%, respectively) [see Dosage and Administration (  2.3  )]  . Events related to visual changes were also observed in monotherapy trials.



    Hazardous Activities  



 Prescribers should advise patients against engaging in hazardous activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating motor vehicles or dangerous machinery, until the effect of APTIOM is known.



    5.7 Withdrawal of AEDs



  As with all antiepileptic drugs, APTIOM should be withdrawn gradually because of the risk of increased seizure frequency and status epilepticus.



    5.8 Drug Induced Liver Injury



  Hepatic effects, ranging from mild to moderate elevations in transaminases (>3 times the upper limit of normal) to rare cases with concomitant elevations of total bilirubin (>2 times the upper limit of normal) have been reported with APTIOM use. Baseline evaluations of liver laboratory tests are recommended. The combination of transaminase elevations and elevated bilirubin without evidence of obstruction is generally recognized as an important predictor of severe liver injury. APTIOM should be discontinued in patients with jaundice or other evidence of significant liver injury (e.g., laboratory evidence).



    5.9 Abnormal Thyroid Function Tests



  Dose-dependent decreases in serum T3 and T4 (free and total) values have been observed in patients taking APTIOM. These changes were not associated with other abnormal thyroid function tests suggesting hypothyroidism. Abnormal thyroid function tests should be clinically evaluated.
