    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



  EXCERPT:   Severe, potentially life threatening and fatal skin reactions have been reported. This includes cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome, hypersensitivity reaction, toxic epidermal necrolysis and erythema multiforme. Immediately discontinue treatment if severe hypersensitivity, severe rash or rash with systemic symptoms or liver transaminase elevations develops and monitor clinical status, including liver transaminases closely. (  5.1  )



 



   5.1 Severe Skin and Hypersensitivity Reactions



  Severe, potentially life-threatening, and fatal skin reactions have been reported. These include cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis and erythema multiforme. Hypersensitivity reactions including Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) have also been reported and were characterized by rash, constitutional findings, and sometimes organ dysfunction, including hepatic failure. In Phase 3 clinical trials, Grade 3 and 4 rashes were reported in 1.3% of subjects receiving INTELENCE  (r)  compared to 0.2% of placebo subjects. A total of 2.2% of HIV-1-infected subjects receiving INTELENCE  (r)  discontinued from Phase 3 trials due to rash [ see  Adverse Reactions (6)    ]. Rash occurred most commonly during the first 6 weeks of therapy. The incidence of rash was higher in females [ see  Adverse Reactions (6)    ]



 Discontinue INTELENCE  (r)  immediately if signs or symptoms of severe skin reactions or hypersensitivity reactions develop (including, but not limited to, severe rash or rash accompanied by fever, general malaise, fatigue, muscle or joint aches, blisters, oral lesions, conjunctivitis, facial edema, hepatitis, eosinophilia, angioedema). Clinical status including liver transaminases should be monitored and appropriate therapy initiated. Delay in stopping INTELENCE  (r)  treatment after the onset of severe rash may result in a life-threatening reaction.



    5.2 Fat Redistribution



  Redistribution/accumulation of body fat, including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and "cushingoid appearance" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established.



    5.3 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome



  Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including INTELENCE  (r)  . During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as Mycobacterium avium  infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jiroveci  pneumonia (PCP) or tuberculosis), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment.



 Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barre syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution; however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment.
