    5     WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Non-infectious pneumonitis: Monitor for clinical symptoms or radiological changes; fatal cases have occurred. Manage by dose reduction or discontinuation until symptoms resolve, and consider use of corticosteroids. (  5.1  ) 
 *  Infections: Increased risk of infections, some fatal. Monitor for signs and symptoms, and treat promptly. (  5.2  ) 
 *  Angioedema: Patients taking concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema. (  5.3  ) 
 *  Oral ulceration: Mouth ulcers, stomatitis, and oral mucositis are common. Management includes mouthwashes and topical treatments. (  5.4  ) 
 *  Renal failure: Cases of renal failure (including acute renal failure), some with a fatal outcome, have been observed. (  5.5  ) 
 *  Impaired wound healing: Increased risk of wound-related complications. Monitor signs and symptoms. Exercise caution in the peri-surgical period. (  5.6  ) 
 *  Laboratory test alterations: Elevations of serum creatinine, urinary protein, blood glucose, and lipids may occur. Decreases in hemoglobin, neutrophils, and platelets may also occur. Monitor renal function, blood glucose, lipids, and hematologic parameters prior to treatment and periodically thereafter. (  5.8  ) 
 *  Vaccinations: Avoid live vaccines and close contact with those who have received live vaccines. (  5.11  ) 
 *  Embryo-fetal toxicity: Fetal harm can occur when administered to a pregnant woman. Apprise women of potential harm to the fetus. (  5.12  ,  8.1  ) 
    
 

   5.1     Non-infectious Pneumonitis



  Non-infectious pneumonitis is a class effect of rapamycin derivatives, including AFINITOR. Non-infectious pneumonitis was reported in up to 19% of patients treated with AFINITOR in clinical trials. The incidence of Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) Grade 3 and 4 non-infectious pneumonitis was up to 4.0% and up to 0.2%, respectively  [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5)]  . Fatal outcomes have been observed.



 Consider a diagnosis of non-infectious pneumonitis in patients presenting with non-specific respiratory signs and symptoms such as hypoxia, pleural effusion, cough, or dyspnea, and in whom infectious, neoplastic, and other causes have been excluded by means of appropriate investigations. Opportunistic infections such as pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PJP) should be considered in the differential diagnosis. Advise patients to report promptly any new or worsening respiratory symptoms.



 Patients who develop radiological changes suggestive of non-infectious pneumonitis and have few or no symptoms may continue AFINITOR therapy without dose alteration. Imaging appears to overestimate the incidence of clinical pneumonitis.



 If symptoms are moderate, consider interrupting therapy until symptoms improve. The use of corticosteroids may be indicated. AFINITOR may be reintroduced at a daily dose approximately 50% lower than the dose previously administered [see Table 1 in Dosage and Administration (2.2)]  .



 For cases of Grade 3 non-infectious pneumonitis interrupt AFINITOR until resolution to less than or equal to Grade 1. AFINITOR may be re-introduced at a daily dose approximately 50% lower than the dose previously administered depending on the individual clinical circumstances [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)]  . If toxicity recurs at Grade 3, consider discontinuation of AFINITOR. For cases of Grade 4 non-infectious pneumonitis, discontinue AFINITOR. Corticosteroids may be indicated until clinical symptoms resolve. For patients who require use of corticosteroids for treatment of non-infectious pneumonitis, prophylaxis for PJP may be considered. The development of pneumonitis has been reported even at a reduced dose.



    5.2     Infections



  AFINITOR has immunosuppressive properties and may predispose patients to bacterial, fungal, viral, or protozoal infections, including infections with opportunistic pathogens [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5)]  . Localized and systemic infections, including pneumonia, mycobacterial infections, other bacterial infections, invasive fungal infections, such as aspergillosis, candidiasis, or pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PJP) and viral infections including reactivation of hepatitis B virus have occurred in patients taking AFINITOR. Some of these infections have been severe (e.g., leading to sepsis, respiratory or hepatic failure) or fatal. Physicians and patients should be aware of the increased risk of infection with AFINITOR. Complete treatment of pre-existing invasive fungal infections prior to starting treatment with AFINITOR. While taking AFINITOR, be vigilant for signs and symptoms of infection; if a diagnosis of an infection is made, institute appropriate treatment promptly and consider interruption or discontinuation of AFINITOR. If a diagnosis of invasive systemic fungal infection is made, discontinue AFINITOR and treat with appropriate antifungal therapy.



 Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia, some with a fatal outcome, has been reported in patients who received everolimus. This may be associated with concomitant use of corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive agents. Prophylaxis for PJP should be considered when concomitant use of corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive agents are required.



    5.3     Angioedema with Concomitant Use of Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme (ACE) Inhibitors



   Patients taking concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema (e.g., swelling of the airways or tongue, with or without respiratory impairment). In a pooled analysis of randomized double-blind oncology clinical trials, the incidence of angioedema in patients taking everolimus with an ACE inhibitor was 6.8% compared to 1.3% in the control arm with an ACE inhibitor.  



    5.4     Oral Ulceration



  Mouth ulcers, stomatitis, and oral mucositis have occurred in patients treated with AFINITOR at an incidence ranging from 44%-78% across the clinical trial experience. Grade 3 or 4 stomatitis was reported in 4%-9% of patients [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5)]  . In such cases, topical treatments are recommended, but alcohol-, hydrogen peroxide-, iodine-, or thyme- containing mouthwashes should be avoided as they may exacerbate the condition. Antifungal agents should not be used unless fungal infection has been diagnosed [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]  .



    5.5     Renal Failure



  Cases of renal failure (including acute renal failure), some with a fatal outcome, have been observed in patients treated with AFINITOR [see Laboratory Tests and Monitoring (5.8)]  .



    5.6     Impaired Wound Healing



  Everolimus delays wound healing and increases the occurrence of wound-related complications like wound dehiscence, wound infection, incisional hernia, lymphocele, and seroma. These wound-related complications may require surgical intervention. Exercise caution with the use of AFINITOR in the peri-surgical period.



    5.7     Geriatric Patients



  In the randomized advanced hormone receptor-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer study, the incidence of deaths due to any cause within 28 days of the last AFINITOR dose was 6% in patients >= 65 years of age compared to 2% in patients < 65 years of age. Adverse reactions leading to permanent treatment discontinuation occurred in 33% of patients >= 65 years of age compared to 17% in patients < 65 years of age. Careful monitoring and appropriate dose adjustments for adverse reactions are recommended [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]  .



    5.8     Laboratory Tests and Monitoring



   Renal Function  



 Elevations of serum creatinine and proteinuria have been reported in patients taking AFINITOR [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5)]  . Monitoring of renal function, including measurement of blood urea nitrogen (BUN), urinary protein, or serum creatinine, is recommended prior to the start of AFINITOR therapy and periodically thereafter. Renal function of patients should be monitored particularly where patients have additional risk factors that may further impair renal function.



  Blood Glucose and Lipids  



 Hyperglycemia, hyperlipidemia, and hypertriglyceridemia have been reported in patients taking AFINITOR [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5)]  . Monitoring of fasting serum glucose and lipid profile is recommended prior to the start of AFINITOR therapy and periodically thereafter as well as management with appropriate medical therapy. More frequent monitoring is recommended when AFINITOR is co-administered with other drugs that may induce hyperglycemia. When possible, optimal glucose and lipid control should be achieved before starting a patient on AFINITOR.



  Hematologic Parameters  



 Decreased hemoglobin, lymphocytes, neutrophils, and platelets have been reported in patients taking AFINITOR [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5)]  . Monitoring of complete blood count is recommended prior to the start of AFINITOR therapy and periodically thereafter.



    5.9     Drug-drug Interactions



  Due to significant increases in exposure of everolimus, co-administration with strong CYP3A4/PgP inhibitors should be avoided  [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.5) and Drug Interactions (7.1)]  .



 A reduction of the AFINITOR dose is recommended when co-administered with a moderate CYP3A4/PgP inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.5) and Drug Interactions (7.1)]  .



 An increase in the AFINITOR dose is recommended when co-administered with a strong CYP3A4/PgP inducer [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.5) and Drug Interactions (7.2)]  .



    5.10     Hepatic Impairment



  Exposure to everolimus was increased in patients with hepatic impairment  [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]  .



 For advanced HR+ BC, advanced PNET, advanced RCC, and renal angiomyolipoma with TSC patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C), AFINITOR may be used at a reduced dose if the desired benefit outweighs the risk. For patients with mild (Child-Pugh class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh class B) hepatic impairment, a dose reduction is recommended [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]  .



 For patients with SEGA and mild or moderate hepatic impairment, adjust the dose of AFINITOR Tablets or AFINITOR DISPERZ based on therapeutic drug monitoring. For patients with SEGA and severe hepatic impairment, reduce the starting dose of AFINITOR Tablets or AFINITOR DISPERZ by approximately 50% and adjust subsequent doses based on therapeutic drug monitoring [see Dosage and Administration (2.4, 2.5)]  .



    5.11     Vaccinations



  During AFINITOR treatment, avoid the use of live vaccines and avoid close contact with individuals who have received live vaccines (e.g., intranasal influenza, measles, mumps, rubella, oral polio, BCG, yellow fever, varicella, and TY21a typhoid vaccines).



 For pediatric patients with SEGA that do not require immediate treatment, complete the recommended childhood series of live virus vaccinations according to American Council on Immunization Practices (ACIP) guidelines prior to the start of therapy. An accelerated vaccination schedule may be appropriate.



    5.12     Embryo-fetal Toxicity



  Based on the mechanism of action, AFINITOR can cause fetal harm. Everolimus caused embryo-fetal toxicities in animals at maternal exposures that were lower than human exposures. If this drug is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]  .



 Advise female patients of reproductive potential to avoid becoming pregnant and to use highly effective contraception while using AFINITOR and for up to 8 weeks after ending treatment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]  .
