    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *    Angioedema of the face, lips, tongue, and/or larynx has been reported with fesoterodine. (  5.1  ). 
 *    Toviaz should be administered with caution to patients with clinically significant bladder outlet obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention. (  5.2  ) 
 *    Toviaz, like other antimuscarinic drugs, should be used with caution in patients with decreased gastrointestinal motility, such as those with severe constipation. (  5.3  ) 
 *    Toviaz should be used with caution in patients being treated for narrow-angle glaucoma, and only where the potential benefits outweigh the risks (  5.4  ) 
 *    Central Nervous System Effects: Somnolence has been reported with Toviaz. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how Toviaz affects them (  5.5  ) 
 *    Toviaz should be used with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis, a disease characterized by decreased cholinergic activity at the neuromuscular junction. (  5.9  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Angioedema



  Angioedema of the face, lips, tongue, and/or larynx has been reported with fesoterodine. In some cases angioedema occurred after the first dose. Angioedema associated with upper airway swelling may be life-threatening. If involvement of the tongue, hypopharynx, or larynx occurs, fesoterodine should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and/or measures to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided.



    5.2 Bladder Outlet Obstruction



  Toviaz should be administered with caution to patients with clinically significant bladder outlet obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention [ see  Contraindications (4)    ].



    5.3 Decreased Gastrointestinal Motility



  Toviaz, like other antimuscarinic drugs, should be used with caution in patients with decreased gastrointestinal motility, such as those with severe constipation.



    5.4 Controlled Narrow-Angle Glaucoma



  Toviaz should be used with caution in patients being treated for narrow-angle glaucoma, and only where the potential benefits outweigh the risks [ see  Contraindications (4)    ].



    5.5 Central Nervous System Effects



  Toviaz is associated with anticholinergic central nervous sytem (CNS) effects [see  Adverse Reactions (6.2)  ]. A variety of CNS anticholinergic effects have been reported, including headache, dizziness, and somnolence. Patients should be monitored for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects, particularly after beginning treatment or increasing the dose. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how Toviaz affects them. If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects, dose reduction or drug discontinuation should be considered.



    5.6 Hepatic Impairment



  Toviaz has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment and therefore is not recommended for use in this patient population [ see  Use in Specific Populations (8.7)  and  Dosage and Administration (2)    ].



    5.7 Renal Impairment



  Doses of Toviaz greater than 4 mg are not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment [ see  Use In Specific Populations (8.6)  and  Dosage and Administration (2)    ].



    5.8 Concomitant Administration with CYP3A4 Inhibitors



    *     Doses of Toviaz greater than 4 mg are not recommended in patients taking a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin). 
 *     No dosing adjustments are recommended in the presence of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., erythromycin, fluconazole, diltiazem, verapamil and grapefruit juice). 
 *     While the effect of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. cimetidine) was not examined by clinical study, some pharmacokinetic interaction is expected, albeit less than that observed with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors [ see  Drug Interactions (7.2)  and  Dosage and Administration (2)   ]. 
       5.9 Myasthenia Gravis
 

  Toviaz should be used with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis, a disease characterized by decreased cholinergic activity at the neuromuscular junction.
