    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Hypersensitivity reactions: Ask patients about prior reactions to Vizamyl. Observe for hypersensitivity signs and symptoms following Vizamyl administration. Have resuscitation equipment and trained personnel available at time of Vizamyl administration (  5.1  ) 
 *  Image interpretation errors (especially false positives) have been observed (  5.2  ) 
 *  Radiation risk: Vizamyl, similar to all radiopharmaceuticals, contributes to a patient's long-term cumulative radiation exposure. Ensure safe handling to protect patients and health care workers from unintentional radiation exposure (  2.1  ,  5.3  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Hypersensitivity Reactions



  Hypersensitivity reactions such as flushing and dyspnea have been observed within minutes following Vizamyl administration. These reactions may occur in patients with no history of prior exposure to Vizamyl.



 Before administering Vizamyl, ask patients about prior reactions to drugs, especially those containing polysorbate 80.



 Have resuscitation equipment and trained personnel immediately available at the time of Vizamyl administration [ see  Contraindications (4)    ].



    5.2 Risk for Image Misinterpretation and Other Errors



  Errors may occur while using Vizamyl PET images to estimate brain neuritic plaque density [ see  Clinical Studies (14)    ].



 Image interpretation is performed independently of the patient's clinical information. The use of clinical information in the interpretation of Vizamyl images has not been evaluated and may lead to errors. Extensive brain atrophy may limit the ability to distinguish grey and white matter on a Vizamyl scan [ see  Dosage and Administration (2.5)    ]. Motion artifacts may distort the image [ see  Dosage and Administration (2.3)    ].



 Vizamyl scan results are indicative of the brain neuritic amyloid plaque content only at the time of image acquisition and a negative scan result does not preclude the development of brain amyloid in the future.



    5.3 Radiation Risk



  Vizamyl, similar to other radiopharmaceuticals, contributes to a patient's overall long-term cumulative radiation exposure. Long-term cumulative radiation exposure is associated with an increased risk of cancer. Ensure safe handling to protect patients and health care workers from unintentional radiation exposure [ see  Dosage and Administration (2.1)    ] .  
