

    BOXED WARNING: WARNING: ASTHMA-RELATED DEATH

  WARNING: ASTHMA-RELATED DEATH

    Long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonists (LABA), such as vilanterol, one of the active ingredients in BREO ELLIPTA, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Data from a large placebo-controlled US trial that compared the safety of another LABA (salmeterol) with placebo added to usual asthma therapy showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in subjects receiving salmeterol. This finding with salmeterol is considered a class effect of LABA. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients.  



   Therefore, when treating patients with asthma, physicians should only prescribe BREO ELLIPTA for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid, or whose disease severity clearly warrants initiation of treatment with both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA. Once asthma control is achieved and maintained, assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy (e.g., discontinue BREO ELLIPTA) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid. Do not use BREO ELLIPTA for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low- or medium-dose inhaled corticosteroids   [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]  .  



   EXCERPT:   WARNING: ASTHMA-RELATED DEATH



   See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning.  



 *  Long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonists (LABA), such as vilanterol, increase the risk of asthma-related death. A placebo-controlled trial with another LABA (salmeterol) showed an increase in asthma-related deaths. This finding with salmeterol is considered a class effect of all LABA. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. (5.1) 
 *  When treating patients with asthma, only prescribe BREO ELLIPTA for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an ICS, or whose disease severity clearly warrants initiation of treatment with both an ICS and a LABA. Once asthma control is achieved and maintained, assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy (e.g., discontinue BREO ELLIPTA) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an ICS. Do not use BREO ELLIPTA for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low- or medium-dose ICS.(1.2, 5.1) 
