    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



     EXCERPT:    *   Driving impairment: Warn patients not to drive until they have gained sufficient experience with HORIZANT to assess whether it will impair their ability to drive. (  5.1  )  
 *   Somnolence/sedation and dizziness: May impair the patient's ability to operate complex machinery. (  5.2  )  
 *   HORIZANT is not interchangeable with other gabapentin products. (  5.3  )  
 *   Suicidal thoughts or behaviors: HORIZANT is a prodrug of gabapentin, an antiepileptic drug (AED). AEDs increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behaviors. Monitor for suicidal thoughts or behaviors. (  5.4  )  
    
 

   5.1 Effects on Driving



   HORIZANT may cause significant driving impairment [see Clinical Studies (  14.3  )]  . The duration of driving impairment after starting therapy with HORIZANT is unknown.  Patients taking HORIZANT should not drive until they have gained sufficient experience to assess whether HORIZANT impairs their ability to drive. However, prescribers and patients should be aware that patients' ability to assess their own driving competence, as well as their ability to assess the degree of somnolence caused by HORIZANT, can be imperfect. Whether the impairment is related to somnolence [see Warnings and Precautions (  5.2  )]  or other effects of HORIZANT is unknown.



    5.2 Somnolence/Sedation and Dizziness



  HORIZANT causes somnolence/sedation and dizziness (see  Tables 4  and  5  ). Patients should be advised not to drive a car or operate other complex machinery until they have gained sufficient experience on HORIZANT to assess whether HORIZANT impairs their ability to perform these tasks.



 During the controlled trials in patients with RLS, somnolence/sedation was reported in 20% of patients treated with 600 mg of HORIZANT per day compared with 6% of patients receiving placebo. In those patients treated with HORIZANT who reported somnolence, the somnolence persisted during treatment in about 30%. In the remaining patients, symptoms resolved within 3 to 4 weeks. Dizziness was reported in 13% of patients receiving 600 mg of HORIZANT per day compared with 4% of patients receiving placebo. In those patients treated with HORIZANT who reported dizziness, symptoms persisted during treatment in about 20%. Somnolence/sedation led to withdrawal in 2% of patients receiving 600 mg of HORIZANT per day. Dizziness led to withdrawal in 1% of patients receiving 600 mg of HORIZANT per day. The incidence of these adverse reactions was greater in the patients receiving 1,200 mg per day.



 During the 12-week, controlled study in patients with PHN, somnolence was reported in 10% of patients treated with 1,200 mg of HORIZANT per day compared with 8% of patients receiving placebo. Fatigue/asthenia was reported in 6% of patients treated with 1,200 mg of HORIZANT per day compared with 1% of patients receiving placebo. In those patients treated with 1,200 mg of HORIZANT per day who reported somnolence (10%), the somnolence persisted during treatment in about 27%. In the remaining patients, symptoms resolved within 4 to 5 weeks. Dizziness was reported in 17% of patients receiving 1,200 mg of HORIZANT per day compared with 15% of patients receiving placebo. In those patients treated with 1,200 mg of HORIZANT per day who reported dizziness, symptoms persisted during treatment in about 6%. Somnolence led to withdrawal in <1% of patients receiving 1,200 mg of HORIZANT per day compared with 2% of patients receiving placebo. Dizziness led to withdrawal in 2% of patients receiving 1,200 mg of HORIZANT per day compared with 3% of patients receiving placebo.



    5.3 Lack of Interchangeability With Gabapentin



  HORIZANT is not interchangeable with other gabapentin products because of differing pharmacokinetic profiles. The same dose of HORIZANT results in different plasma concentrations of gabapentin relative to other gabapentin products. [See Clinical Pharmacology (  12.3  ).]  



 The safety and effectiveness of HORIZANT in patients with epilepsy have not been studied.



    5.4 Suicidal Behavior and Ideation



  HORIZANT (gabapentin enacarbil) is a prodrug of gabapentin, an antiepileptic drug (AED). AEDs increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication. Because HORIZANT is a prodrug of gabapentin, HORIZANT also increases this risk. Patients treated with any AED for any indication should be monitored for the emergence or worsening of depression, suicidal thoughts or behavior, and/or any unusual changes in mood or behavior.



 Pooled analyses of 199 placebo-controlled clinical trials (monotherapy and adjunctive therapy) of 11 different AEDs showed that patients randomized to 1 of the AEDs had approximately twice the risk [adjusted relative risk 1.8, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.2, 2.7] of suicidal thinking or behavior compared with patients randomized to placebo. In these trials, which had a median treatment duration of 12 weeks, the estimated incidence rate of suicidal behavior or ideation among 27,863 AED-treated patients was 0.43%, compared with 0.24% among 16,029 placebo-treated patients, representing an increase of approximately 1 case of suicidal thinking or behavior for every 530 patients treated. There were 4 suicides in drug-treated patients in the trials and none in placebo-treated patients, but the number is too small to allow any conclusion about drug effect on suicide.



 The increased risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with AEDs was observed as early as 1 week after starting drug treatment with AEDs and persisted for the duration of treatment assessed. Because most trials included in the analysis did not extend beyond 24 weeks, the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior beyond 24 weeks could not be assessed.



 The risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior was generally consistent among drugs in the data analyzed. The finding of increased risk with AEDs of varying mechanisms of action and across a range of indications suggests that the risk applies to all AEDs used for any indication. The risk did not vary substantially by age (5 to 100 years) in the clinical trials analyzed. Table 3 shows absolute and relative risk by indication for all evaluated AEDs.



 Table 3. Risk by Indication for Antiepileptic Drugs in the Pooled Analysis 
 Indication                  PlaceboPatients WithEvents Per1,000 Patients   Drug PatientsWith Events Per1,000 Patients  Relative Risk:Incidence of Eventsin DrugPatients/Incidencein Placebo Patients  Risk Difference:Additional DrugPatients WithEvents Per 1,000Patients   
 Epilepsy                   1.0                        3.4                        3.5                        2.4                         
 Psychiatric                5.7                        8.5                        1.5                        2.9                         
 Other                      1.0                        1.8                        1.9                        0.9                         
 Total                      2.4                        4.3                        1.8                        1.9                         
      The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications.
 

 Anyone considering prescribing HORIZANT must balance the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with the risk of untreated illness. Epilepsy and many other illnesses for which AEDs are prescribed are themselves associated with morbidity and mortality and an increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior. Should suicidal thoughts and behavior emerge during treatment, the prescriber needs to consider whether the emergence of these symptoms in any given patient may be related to the illness being treated.



 Patients, their caregivers, and families should be informed that HORIZANT increases the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior and should be advised of the need to be alert for the emergence or worsening of the signs and symptoms of depression, any unusual changes in mood or behavior, or the emergence of suicidal thoughts, behavior, or thoughts about self-harm. Behaviors of concern should be reported immediately to healthcare providers.



    5.5 Drug Reaction With Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)/Multiorgan Hypersensitivity



  Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), also known as multiorgan hypersensitivity, has been reported in patients taking antiepileptic drugs, including gabapentin. HORIZANT is a prodrug of gabapentin. Some of these events have been fatal or life-threatening. DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, and/or lymphadenopathy, in association with other organ system involvement, such as hepatitis, nephritis, hematological abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis sometimes resembling an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. Because this disorder is variable in its expression, other organ systems not noted here may be involved.



 It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity, such as fever or lymphadenopathy, may be present even though rash is not evident. If such signs or symptoms are present, the patient should be evaluated immediately. HORIZANT should be discontinued if an alternative etiology for the signs or symptoms cannot be established.



    5.6 Discontinuation of HORIZANT



  When discontinuing HORIZANT, patients with RLS receiving 600 mg or less once daily can discontinue the drug without tapering. If the recommended dose is exceeded, the dose should be reduced to 600 mg daily for 1 week prior to discontinuation to minimize the potential of withdrawal seizure.



 In patients with PHN receiving HORIZANT twice daily, the dose should be reduced to once daily for 1 week prior to discontinuation to minimize the potential of withdrawal seizure, see  Table 2   [see Dosage and Administration (  2.3  )]  .



    5.7 Tumorigenic Potential



  In an oral carcinogenicity study, gabapentin enacarbil increased the incidence of pancreatic acinar cell adenoma and carcinoma in male and female rats [see Nonclinical Toxicology (  13.1  )]  . The clinical significance of this finding is unknown.



 In clinical studies of gabapentin as adjunctive therapy in epilepsy comprising 2,085 patient-years of exposure in patients >12 years of age, new tumors were reported in 10 patients (2 breast, 3 brain, 2 lung, 1 adrenal, 1 non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, 1 endometrial carcinoma in situ), and preexisting tumors worsened in 11 patients (9 brain, 1 breast, 1 prostate) during or up to 2 years following discontinuation of gabapentin. Without knowledge of the background incidence and recurrence in a similar population not treated with gabapentin, it is impossible to know whether the incidence reported in this cohort is or is not affected by treatment.
