    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *    Nephrogenic Systemic Fibrosis has occurred in patients with impaired elimination of GBCAs. Higher than recommended dosing or repeated dosing appears to increase the risk (  5.1  ) 
 *    Anaphylactic and other hypersensitivity reactions with cardiovascular, respiratory or cutaneous manifestations, ranging from mild to severe, including death, have occurred. Monitor patients closely during and after administration of Gadavist (  5.2  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Nephrogenic Systemic Fibrosis



  Gadolinium-based contrast agents (GBCAs) increase the risk for nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF) among patients with impaired elimination of the drugs. Avoid use of GBCAs among these patients unless the diagnostic information is essential and not available with non-contrast MRI or other modalities. The GBCA-associated NSF risk appears highest for patients with chronic, severe kidney disease (GFR < 30 mL/min/1.73m  2  ) as well as patients with acute kidney injury. The risk appears lower for patients with chronic, moderate kidney disease (GFR 30 to 59 mL/min/1.73m  2  ) and little, if any, for patients with chronic, mild kidney disease (GFR 60 to 89 mL/min/1.73m  2  ). NSF may result in fatal or debilitating fibrosis affecting the skin, muscle and internal organs. Report any diagnosis of NSF following Gadavist administration to Bayer Healthcare (1-888-842-2937) or FDA (1-800-FDA-1088 or  www.fda.gov/medwatch  ).



 Screen patients for acute kidney injury and other conditions that may reduce renal function. Features of acute kidney injury consist of rapid (over hours to days) and usually reversible decrease in kidney function, commonly in the setting of surgery, severe infection, injury or drug-induced kidney toxicity. Serum creatinine levels and estimated GFR may not reliably assess renal function in the setting of acute kidney injury. For patients at risk for chronically reduced renal function (for example, age > 60 years, diabetes mellitus or chronic hypertension), estimate the GFR through laboratory testing.



 Among the factors that may increase the risk for NSF are repeated or higher than recommended doses of a GBCA and degree of renal impairment at the time of exposure. Record the specific GBCA and the dose administered to a patient. For patients at highest risk for NSF, do not exceed the recommended Gadavist dose and allow a sufficient period of time for elimination of the drug prior to re-administration. For patients receiving hemodialysis, consider the prompt initiation of hemodialysis following the administration of a GBCA in order to enhance the contrast agent's elimination [see Use in Specific Populations (  8.6  ) and Clinical Pharmacology (  12.3  )].  The usefulness of hemodialysis in the prevention of NSF is unknown [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].  



    5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions



  Anaphylactic and other hypersensitivity reactions with cardiovascular, respiratory or cutaneous manifestations, ranging from mild to severe, including death, have uncommonly occurred following Gadavist administration [see Adverse Reactions (  6  )]  .



 *    Before Gadavist administration, assess all patients for any history of a reaction to contrast media, bronchial asthma and/or allergic disorders. These patients may have an increased risk for a hypersensitivity reaction to Gadavist. 
 *    Administer Gadavist only in situations where trained personnel and therapies are promptly available for the treatment of hypersensitivity reactions, including personnel trained in resuscitation. 
    Most hypersensitivity reactions to Gadavist have occurred within half an hour after administration. Delayed reactions can occur up to several days after administration. Observe patients for signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions during and following Gadavist administration.
 

    5.3 Acute Kidney Injury



  In patients with chronic renal impairment, acute kidney injury sometimes requiring dialysis has been observed with the use of some GBCAs. Do not exceed the recommended dose; the risk of acute kidney injury may increase with higher than recommended doses.



    5.4 Extravasation and Injection Site Reactions



  Ensure catheter and venous patency before the injection of Gadavist. Extravasation into tissues during Gadavist administration may result in moderate irritation [see Nonclinical Toxicology (  13.2  )]  .



    5.5 Overestimation of Extent of Malignant Disease in MRI of the Breast



   Gadavist MRI of the breast overestimated the histologically confirmed extent of malignancy in the diseased breast in up to 50% of the patients [see Clinical Studies (    14.2   )].  
