    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *    Nephrogenic Systemic Fibrosis has occurred in patients with impaired elimination of GBCAs. Higher than recommended dosing or repeated dosing appears to increase the risk (  5.1  ) 
 *    Hypersensitivity: anaphylactoid/hypersensitivity reactions with cardiovascular, respiratory and cutaneous manifestations, ranging from mild to severe reactions including shock can occur. Monitor patients closely for need of emergency cardiorespiratory support (  5.2  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Nephrogenic Systemic Fibrosis (NSF)



  Gadolinium-based contrast agents (GBCAs) increase the risk for nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF) among patients with impaired elimination of the drugs. Avoid use of GBCAs among these patients unless the diagnostic information is essential and not available with non-contrast enhanced MRI or other modalities. The GBCA-associated NSF risk appears highest for patients with chronic, severe kidney disease (GFR < 30 mL/min/1.73m  2  ) as well as patients with acute kidney injury. The risk appears lower for patients with chronic, moderate kidney disease (GFR 30 to 59 mL/min/1.73m  2  ) and little, if any, for patients with chronic, mild kidney disease (GFR 60 to 89 mL/min/1.73m  2  ). NSF may result in fatal or debilitating fibrosis affecting the skin, muscle and internal organs. Report any diagnosis of NSF following EOVIST administration to Bayer HealthCare (1-888-842-2937) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch).



 Screen patients for acute kidney injury and other conditions that may reduce renal function. Features of acute kidney injury consist of rapid (over hours to days) and usually reversible decrease in kidney function, commonly in the setting of surgery, severe infection, injury or drug-induced kidney toxicity. Serum creatinine levels and estimated GFR may not reliably assess renal function in the setting of acute kidney injury. For patients at risk for chronically reduced renal function (for example, age > 60 years, diabetes mellitus or chronic hypertension), estimate the GFR through laboratory testing.



 Among the factors that may increase the risk for NSF are repeated or higher than recommended doses of a GBCA and degree of renal impairment at the time of exposure. Record the specific GBCA and the dose administrated to a patient. For patients at highest risk for NSF, do not exceed the recommended EOVIST dose and allow a sufficient period of time for elimination of the drug prior to any re-administration. For patients receiving hemodialysis, physicians may consider the prompt initiation of hemodialysis following the administration of a GBCA in order to enhance the contrast agent's elimination [see Use in Specific Populations (  8.6  )  and Clinical Pharmacology (  12.3  )].  The usefulness of hemodialysis in the prevention of NSF is unknown.



    5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions



  Anaphylactic and other hypersensitivity reactions with cardiovascular, respiratory and cutaneous manifestations, ranging from mild to severe, including shock have uncommonly occurred following EOVIST administration [see Adverse Reactions (  6  )]  .



 *    Before EOVIST administration, assess all patients for any history of a reaction to contrast media, bronchial asthma and allergic disorders. These patients may have an increased risk for a hypersensitivity reaction to EOVIST. 
 *    Administer EOVIST only in situations where trained personnel and therapies are promptly available for the treatment of hypersensitivity reactions, including personnel trained in resuscitation. 
    Most hypersensitivity reactions to EOVIST have occurred within half an hour after administration. Delayed reactions can occur up to several days after EOVIST administration. Observe patients for signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions during and following EOVIST administration.
 

    5.3 Acute Kidney Injury



  In patients with chronic renal impairment, acute kidney injury sometimes requiring dialysis has been observed with the use of some GBCAs. The risk of acute kidney injury might be lower with EOVIST due to its dual excretory pathways. Do not exceed the recommended dose; the risk of acute kidney injury may increase with higher than recommended doses.



    5.4 Extravasation and Injection Site Reactions



  Ensure catheter and venous patency before the injection of EOVIST. Extravasation into tissues during EOVIST administration may result in local tissue reactions. Strictly avoid intramuscular administration of EOVIST because it may cause myocyte necrosis and inflammation [see Nonclinical Toxicology (  13.2  )]  .



    5.5 Interference with Laboratory Tests



  Serum iron determination using complexometric methods (for example, ferrocene complexation method) may result in falsely high or low values for up to 24 hours after the examination with EOVIST because of the caloxetate trisodium excipients [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )]  .



    5.6 Interference with Visualization of Liver Lesions



  Severe renal or hepatic failure may impair EOVIST imaging performance. In patients with end-stage renal failure, hepatic contrast was markedly reduced and was attributed to elevated serum ferritin levels. In patients with abnormally high (>3 mg/dL) serum bilirubin, reduced hepatic contrast was observed. If EOVIST is used in these patients, complete MRI no later than 60 minutes after EOVIST administration and use a paired non-contrast and contrast MRI set for diagnosis.
