    5        WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Serious allergic reactions, including anaphylactic reactions, may occur. (  5.1  ) 
 *  Measurement of methotrexate using immunoassays is unreliable for samples collected within 48 hours following VORAXAZE administration. (  5.2  ) 
 *  Continue therapy with leucovorin until the methotrexate concentration has been maintained below the leucovorin treatment threshold for a minimum of 3 days. (  5.3  ) 
 *  Do not administer leucovorin within 2 hours before or after a dose of VORAXAZE. (  5.3  ) 
 *  For 48 hours after VORAXAZE administration, determine the leucovorin dose based on the patient's pre-VORAXAZE methotrexate concentration. (  5.3  ) 
 *  Continue hydration and alkalinization of the urine as indicated. (  5.3  ) 
    
 

   5.1     Serious Allergic Reactions



  Serious allergic reactions occurred in less than 1% of patients [ see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )  ].



    5.2     Monitoring Methotrexate Concentration/Interference with Assay



  Methotrexate concentrations within 48 hours following administration of VORAXAZE can only be reliably measured by a chromatographic method. DAMPA (4-deoxy-4-amino-N  10  -methylpteroic acid) is an inactive metabolite of methotrexate resulting from treatment with VORAXAZE. DAMPA interferes with the measurement of methotrexate concentration using immunoassays resulting in an erroneous measurement which overestimates the methotrexate concentration. Due to the long half-life of DAMPA (t1/2of approximately 9 hours), measurement of methotrexate using immunoassays is unreliable for samples collected within 48 hours following VORAXAZE administration [ see Clinical Pharmacology (  12.1  )  ].



    5.3     Continuation and Timing of Leucovorin Rescue



  Continue to administer leucovorin after VORAXAZE. Do not administer  leucovorin within 2 hours before or after a dose of VORAXAZE because leucovorin is a substrate for VORAXAZE [ see Drug Interactions (  7.1  )  ].



 For the first 48 hours after VORAXAZE, administer the same leucovorin dose as given prior to VORAXAZE [ see Warnings and Precautions (  5.2  )  ]. Beyond 48 hours after VORAXAZE, administer leucovorin based on the measured methotrexate concentration. Do not discontinue therapy with leucovorin based on the determination of a single methotrexate concentration below the leucovorin treatment threshold. Therapy with leucovorin should be continued until the methotrexate concentration has been maintained below the leucovorin treatment threshold for a minimum of 3 days.



 Continue hydration and alkalinization of the urine as indicated.
