    6 ADVERSE REACTIONS

  The most serious adverse reactions were:



 *  Serious Infections [see  Warnings and Precautions (5.1)  ]  
 *  Malignancies [see  Warnings and Precautions (5.2)  ]  
      EXCERPT:   Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=3%) are: upper respiratory tract infection, viral infection, bronchitis, hypertension, and rash (  6.1  ).
 

   To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contactJanssen Biotech, Inc. at 1-800-JANSSEN (1-800-526-7736) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or  www.fda.gov/medwatch.    



 

  6.1 Clinical Trials Experience

  Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice.



 The safety data described below are based on one, randomized, double-blind, controlled Phase 3 trial in patients with RA receiving SIMPONI ARIA by intravenous infusion (Trial 1). The protocol included provisions for patients taking placebo to receive treatment with SIMPONI ARIA at Week 16 or Week 24 either by patient response (based on uncontrolled disease activity) or by design, so that adverse events cannot always be unambiguously attributed to a given treatment. Comparisons between placebo and SIMPONI ARIA were based on the first 24 weeks of exposure.



 Trial 1 included 197 control-treated patients and 463 SIMPONI ARIA-treated patients (which includes control-treated patients who switched to SIMPONI ARIA at Week 16). The proportion of patients who discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions in the controlled phase of Trial 1 through Week 24 was 3.5% for SIMPONI ARIA-treated patients and 0.5% for placebo-treated patients. Upper respiratory tract infection was the most common adverse reaction reported in the trial through Week 24 occurring in 6.5% of SIMPONI ARIA-treated patients as compared with 7.6% of control-treated patients, respectively.



     Infections  



 Serious infections observed in SIMPONI ARIA-treated patients included sepsis, pneumonia, cellulitis, abscess, opportunistic infections, tuberculosis (TB), and invasive fungal infections. Cases of TB included pulmonary and extrapulmonary TB. The majority of the TB cases occurred in countries with a high incidence rate of TB  [see  Warnings and Precautions (5.1)  ]  .



 In the controlled phase of Trial 1 through Week 24, infections were observed in 27% of SIMPONI ARIA-treated patients compared with 24% of control-treated patients, and serious infections were observed in 0.9% of SIMPONI ARIA-treated patients and 0.0% of control-treated patients. Through Week 24, the incidence of serious infections per 100 patient-years of follow-up was 2.2 (95% CI 0.61, 5.71) for the SIMPONI ARIA group, and 0 (0.00, 3.79) for the placebo group. In the controlled and uncontrolled portions of Trial 1, 958 total patient-years of follow-up with a median follow-up of approximately 92 weeks, the incidence per 100 patient-years of all serious infections was 4.07 (CI: 2.90, 5.57) in patients receiving SIMPONI ARIA  [see  Warnings and Precautions (5.1)  ]  . In the controlled and uncontrolled portions of Trial 1, in SIMPONI ARIA treated patients, the incidence of active TB per 100 patient-years was 0.31 (95% CI: 0.06; 0.92) and the incidence of other opportunistic infections per 100 patient-years was 0.42 (95% CI: 0.11, 1.07).



     Malignancies  



 One case of malignancy other than lymphoma and NMSC with SIMPONI ARIA was reported through Week 24 during the controlled phase of Trial 1. In the controlled and uncontrolled portions through approximately 92 weeks, the incidence of malignancies per 100 patient-years, other than lymphoma and NMSC, in SIMPONI ARIA-treated patients was 0.31 (CI: 0.06, 0.92) and the incidence of NMSC was 0.1 (95% CI: 0.00, 0.58).



     Liver Enzyme Elevations  



 There have been reports of severe hepatic reactions including acute liver failure in patients receiving TNF-blockers.



 In the controlled phase of Trial 1, through Week 24, ALT elevations >= 5 * ULN occurred in 0.8% of SIMPONI ARIA-treated patients and 0% of control-treated patients and ALT elevations >= 3 * ULN occurred in 2.3% of SIMPONI ARIA-treated patients and 2.5% of control-treated patients.



 Since many of the patients in the Phase 3 trial were also taking medications that cause liver enzyme elevations (e.g., nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs [NSAIDs], methotrexate [MTX], or isoniazid prophylaxis), the relationship between SIMPONI ARIA and liver enzyme elevation is not clear.



     Autoimmune Disorders and Autoantibodies  



 The use of TNF-blockers, of which SIMPONI ARIA is a member, has been associated with the formation of autoantibodies and, rarely, with the development of a lupus-like syndrome.



 At Week 20 in Trial 1, 17% of SIMPONI ARIA-treated patients and 13% of control patients were newly ANA-positive (at titers of 1:160 or greater). Of these patients, one SIMPONI ARIA-treated patient and no control-treated patients had newly positive anti-dsDNA antibodies.



     Administration Reactions  



 In the controlled phase of Trial 1 through Week 24, 1.1% of SIMPONI ARIA infusions were associated with an infusion reaction compared with 0.2% of infusions in the control group. The most common infusion reaction in SIMPONI ARIA treated patients was rash. No serious infusion reactions were reported.



     Immunogenicity  



 Antibodies to SIMPONI ARIA were detected in 13 (3%) golimumab-treated patients following IV administration of SIMPONI ARIA in combination with MTX through Week 24 of Trial 1.



 All patients who were positive for antibodies to golimumab had neutralizing antibodies based on an in vitro cell-based assay. The small number of patients positive for antibodies to SIMPONI ARIA limits the ability to draw definitive conclusions regarding the relationship between antibodies to golimumab and clinical efficacy or safety measures.



 The data above reflect the percentage of patients whose test results were considered positive for antibodies to SIMPONI ARIA in an ELISA assay. The ELISA assay is subject to interference by co-present golimumab and thus the results are an underestimate of the rate of product immunogenicity and are in addition highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay. Additionally, the observed incidence of antibody positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including sample handling, timing of sample collection, concomitant medications, and underlying disease. For these reasons, comparison of the incidence of antibodies to SIMPONI ARIA with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading.



     Other Adverse Reactions  



 Table 1 summarizes the adverse drug reactions that occurred at a rate of at least 1% in the SIMPONI ARIA + MTX group with a higher incidence than in the placebo + MTX group during the controlled period of Trial 1 through Week 24.



 Table 1: Adverse Drug Reactions Reported by >= 1% of SIMPONI ARIA-Treated Patients and with a Higher Incidence than Placebo-Treated Patients in Trial 1 through Week 24 
                                                           Placebo + MTX           SIMPONI ARIA + MTX       
  
 Patients treated                                               197                        463              
 Adverse Reaction                                     
   Infections and Infestations                                                                              
    Upper respiratory tract infection (such as upper respiratory tract infection, nasopharyngitis, pharyngitis, laryngitis, and rhinitis)             12%                        13%              
    Viral infections (such as influenza and herpes)             3%                         4%               
    Bacterial infections                                        0%                         1%               
    Bronchitis                                                  1%                         3%               
   Vascular disorders                                                                                       
    Hypertension                                                2%                         3%               
   Skin and subcutaneous disorders                                                                          
    Rash                                                        1%                         3%               
   General disorders and administration site conditions                                                           
    Pyrexia                                                     1%                         2%               
   Blood and lymphatic disorders                                                                            
    Leukopenia                                                  0%                         1%               
             Other and less common clinical trial adverse drug reactions  
 

 Adverse drug reactions that do not appear in Table 1 or that occurred <1% in SIMPONI ARIA-treated patients during Trial 1 through Week 24 that do not appear in the Warnings and Precautions section included the following events listed by system organ class:



   Infections and Infestations  : Superficial fungal infection, sinusitis, abscess, lower respiratory tract infection (pneumonia), pyelonephritis



   Investigations  : Alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, neutrophil count decreased



   Nervous system disorders  : Dizziness, paresthesia



   Gastrointestinal disorders  : Constipation



   6.2 Post-marketing Experience

  There is no post-marketing experience available for SIMPONI ARIA. The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of the subcutaneous formulation of golimumab. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to golimumab exposure.



   Neoplasm Benign and Malignant  : Melanoma  [see  Warnings and Precautions (5.2)  ]  



   Immune System Disorders  : Serious systemic hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylactic reaction)  [see  Warnings and Precautions (5.10)  ]  , sarcoidosis



   Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders  : Interstitial lung disease



   Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders  : Skin exfoliation, bullous skin reactions
