    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Serious infections - Do not start SIMPONI ARIA during an active infection. If an infection develops, monitor carefully, and stop SIMPONI ARIA if infection becomes serious (  5.1  ). 
 *  Invasive fungal infections - For patients who develop a systemic illness on SIMPONI ARIA, consider empiric antifungal therapy for those who reside in or travel to regions where mycoses are endemic (  5.1  ). 
 *  Hepatitis B reactivation - Monitor HBV carriers during and several months after therapy. If reactivation occurs, stop SIMPONI ARIA and begin anti-viral therapy (  5.1  ). 
 *  Malignancies - More cases of lymphoma have been observed among patients receiving TNF-blockers compared with patients in the control groups. Cases of other malignancies have been observed among patients receiving TNF-blockers (  5.2  ). 
 *  Heart failure - Worsening, or new onset, may occur. Stop SIMPONI ARIA if new or worsening symptoms occur (  5.3  ). 
 *  Demyelinating disease, exacerbation or new onset, may occur (  5.4  ). 
 *  Hypersensitivity reactions: Serious systemic hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis may occur (  5.10  ). 
    
 

   5.1 Serious Infections



  Patients treated with SIMPONI ARIA are at increased risk for developing serious infections involving various organ systems and sites that may lead to hospitalization or death.



 Opportunistic infections due to bacterial, mycobacterial, invasive fungal, viral, or parasitic organisms including aspergillosis, blastomycosis, candidiasis, coccidioidomycosis, histoplasmosis, legionellosis, listeriosis, pneumocystosis, and tuberculosis have been reported with TNF-blockers. Patients have frequently presented with disseminated rather than localized disease. The concomitant use of a TNF-blocker and abatacept or anakinra was associated with a higher risk of serious infections; therefore, the concomitant use of SIMPONI ARIA and these biologic products is not recommended [see  Warnings and Precautions (5.5  ,  5.6  ) and  Drug Interactions (7.2)  ]  .



 Treatment with SIMPONI ARIA should not be initiated in patients with an active infection, including clinically important localized infections. Patients greater than 65 years of age, patients with co-morbid conditions and/or patients taking concomitant immunosuppressants such as corticosteroids or methotrexate may be at greater risk of infection. Consider the risks and benefits of treatment prior to initiating SIMPONI ARIA in patients:



 *  with chronic or recurrent infection; 
 *  who have been exposed to tuberculosis; 
 *  with a history of an opportunistic infection; 
 *  who have resided or traveled in areas of endemic tuberculosis or endemic mycoses, such as histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, or blastomycosis; or 
 *  with underlying conditions that may predispose them to infection. 
       Monitoring  
 

 Closely monitor patients for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during and after treatment with SIMPONI ARIA. Discontinue SIMPONI ARIA if a patient develops a serious infection, an opportunistic infection, or sepsis. For patients who develop a new infection during treatment with SIMPONI ARIA, perform a prompt and complete diagnostic workup appropriate for an immunocompromised patient and initiate appropriate antimicrobial therapy and closely monitor them.



    Tuberculosis  



 Cases of reactivation of tuberculosis or new tuberculosis infections have been observed in patients receiving TNF-blockers, including patients who have previously received treatment for latent or active tuberculosis. Evaluate patients for tuberculosis risk factors and test for latent infection prior to initiating SIMPONI ARIA and periodically during therapy.



 Treatment of latent tuberculosis infection prior to therapy with TNF-blockers has been shown to reduce the risk of tuberculosis reactivation during therapy. Prior to initiating SIMPONI ARIA, assess if treatment for latent tuberculosis is needed; An induration of 5 mm or greater is a positive tuberculin skin test, even for patients previously vaccinated with Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG).



 Consider anti-tuberculosis therapy prior to initiation of SIMPONI ARIA in patients with a past history of latent or active tuberculosis in whom an adequate course of treatment cannot be confirmed, and for patients with a negative test for latent tuberculosis but having risk factors for tuberculosis infection. Consultation with a physician with expertise in the treatment of tuberculosis is recommended to aid in the decision whether initiating anti-tuberculosis therapy is appropriate for an individual patient.



  Cases of active tuberculosis have occurred in patients treated with the subcutaneous formulation of golimumab during and after treatment for latent tuberculosis. Monitor patients for the development of signs and symptoms of tuberculosis including patients who tested negative for latent tuberculosis infection prior to initiating therapy, patients who are on treatment for latent tuberculosis, or patients who were previously treated for tuberculosis infection.  



 Consider tuberculosis in the differential diagnosis in patients who develop a new infection during SIMPONI ARIA treatment, especially in patients who have previously or recently traveled to countries with a high prevalence of tuberculosis, or who have had close contact with a person with active tuberculosis.



    Invasive Fungal Infections  



 If patients develop a serious systemic illness and they reside or travel in regions where mycoses are endemic, consider invasive fungal infection in the differential diagnosis. Consider appropriate empiric antifungal therapy and take into account both the risk for severe fungal infection and the risks of antifungal therapy while a diagnostic workup is being performed. Antigen and antibody testing for histoplasmosis may be negative in some patients with active infection. To aid in the management of such patients, consider consultation with a physician with expertise in the diagnosis and treatment of invasive fungal infections.



    Hepatitis B Virus Reactivation  



 The use of TNF-blockers, of which SIMPONI ARIA is a member, has been associated with reactivation of hepatitis B virus (HBV) in patients who are chronic hepatitis B carriers (i.e., surface antigen positive). In some instances, HBV reactivation occurring in conjunction with TNF-blocker therapy has been fatal. The majority of these reports have occurred in patients who received concomitant immunosuppressants.



 All patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating TNF-blocker therapy. For patients who test positive for hepatitis B surface antigen, consultation with a physician with expertise in the treatment of hepatitis B is recommended before initiating TNF-blocker therapy. The risks and benefits of treatment should be considered prior to prescribing TNF-blockers, including SIMPONI ARIA, to patients who are carriers of HBV. Adequate data are not available on whether anti-viral therapy can reduce the risk of HBV reactivation in HBV carriers who are treated with TNF-blockers. Patients who are carriers of HBV and require treatment with TNF-blockers should be closely monitored for clinical and laboratory signs of active HBV infection throughout therapy and for several months following termination of therapy.



 In patients who develop HBV reactivation, TNF-blockers should be stopped and antiviral therapy with appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated. The safety of resuming TNF-blockers after HBV reactivation has been controlled is not known. Therefore, prescribers should exercise caution when considering resumption of TNF-blockers in this situation and monitor patients closely.



    5.2 Malignancies



   Malignancies in Pediatric Patients  



 Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents, and young adults who received treatment with TNF-blocking agents (initiation of therapy <= 18 years of age), of which SIMPONI ARIA is a member. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas, including Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The other cases represented a variety of malignancies, including rare malignancies that are usually associated with immunosuppression, and malignancies that are not usually observed in children and adolescents. The malignancies occurred after a median of 30 months (range 1 to 84 months) after the first dose of TNF-blocker therapy. Most of the patients were receiving concomitant immunosuppressants. These cases were reported post-marketing and are derived from a variety of sources, including registries and spontaneous post-marketing reports. Use of SIMPONI ARIA in patients under 18 years of age has not been established.



    Malignancies in Adult Patients  



 The risks and benefits of TNF-blocker treatment including SIMPONI ARIA should be considered prior to initiating therapy in patients with a known malignancy other than a successfully treated non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) or when considering continuing a TNF-blocker in patients who develop a malignancy.



 In the controlled portions of clinical trials of TNF-blockers including the subcutaneous formulation of golimumab more cases of lymphoma have been observed among patients receiving anti-TNF treatment compared with patients in the control groups. Patients with RA and other chronic inflammatory diseases, particularly patients with highly active disease and/or chronic exposure to immunosuppressant therapies, may be at higher risk (up to several fold) than the general population for the development of lymphoma, even in the absence of TNF-blocking therapy. Cases of acute and chronic leukemia have been reported with post-marketing TNF-blocker use in rheumatoid arthritis and other indications. Even in the absence of TNF-blocker therapy, patients with rheumatoid arthritis may be at a higher risk (approximately 2-fold) than the general population for the development of leukemia.



  Rare post-marketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (HSTCL) have been reported in patients treated with TNF-blocking agents. This rare type of T-cell lymphoma has a very aggressive disease course and is usually fatal. Nearly all of the reported TNF-blocker associated cases have occurred in patients with Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis. The majority were in adolescent and young adult males. Almost all these patients had received treatment with azathioprine (AZA) or 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) concomitantly with a TNF-blocker at or prior to diagnosis. A risk for the development for hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma in patients treated with TNF-blockers cannot be excluded.  



 Melanoma has been reported in patients treated with TNF-blocking agents, including the subcutaneous formulation of golimumab. Merkel cell carcinoma has been reported in patients treated with TNF-blocking agents. Periodic skin examination is recommended for all patients, particularly those with risk factors for skin cancer.



 In controlled trials of other TNF-blockers in patients at higher risk for malignancies (e.g., patients with COPD, patients with Wegener's granulomatosis treated with concomitant cyclophosphamide) a greater portion of malignancies occurred in the TNF-blocker group compared to the controlled group. In an exploratory clinical trial evaluating the use of the subcutaneous formulation of golimumab in patients with severe persistent asthma, more patients treated with golimumab reported malignancies compared with control patients. The significance of this finding is unknown.



 During the controlled portion of the Phase 3 trial in RA for SIMPONI ARIA, the incidence of malignancies other than lymphoma and NMSC per 100-patient-years of follow-up was 0.56 (95% CI: 0.01, 3.11) in the SIMPONI ARIA group compared with an incidence of 0 (95% CI: 0.00, 3.79) in the placebo group.



    5.3 Congestive Heart Failure



  Cases of worsening congestive heart failure (CHF) and new onset CHF have been reported with TNF-blockers, including SIMPONI ARIA. In several exploratory trials of other TNF-blockers in the treatment of CHF, there were greater proportions of TNF-blocker treated patients who had CHF exacerbations requiring hospitalization or increased mortality. SIMPONI ARIA has not been studied in patients with a history of CHF and SIMPONI ARIA should be used with caution in patients with CHF. If a decision is made to administer SIMPONI ARIA to RA patients with CHF, these patients should be closely monitored during therapy, and SIMPONI ARIA should be discontinued if new or worsening symptoms of CHF appear.



    5.4 Demyelinating Disorders



  Use of TNF-blockers, of which SIMPONI ARIA is a member, has been associated with rare cases of new onset or exacerbation of central nervous system (CNS) demyelinating disorders, including multiple sclerosis (MS) and peripheral demyelinating disorders, including Guillain-Barre syndrome. Cases of central demyelination, MS, optic neuritis, and peripheral demyelinating polyneuropathy have rarely been reported in patients treated with the subcutaneous formulation of golimumab. Prescribers should exercise caution in considering the use of TNF-blockers, including SIMPONI ARIA, in patients with central or peripheral nervous system demyelinating disorders. Discontinuation of SIMPONI ARIA should be considered if these disorders develop.



    5.5 Use with Abatacept



  In controlled trials, the concurrent administration of another TNF-blocker and abatacept was associated with a greater proportion of serious infections than the use of a TNF-blocker alone; and the combination therapy, compared to the use of a TNF-blocker alone, has not demonstrated improved clinical benefit in the treatment of RA. Therefore, the combination of TNF-blockers including SIMPONI ARIA and abatacept is not recommended [see  Drug Interactions (7.2)  ]  .



    5.6 Use with Anakinra



  Concurrent administration of anakinra (an interleukin-1 antagonist) and another TNF-blocker, was associated with a greater portion of serious infections and neutropenia and no additional benefits compared with the TNF-blocker alone. Therefore, the combination of anakinra with TNF-blockers, including SIMPONI ARIA, is not recommended [see  Drug Interactions (7.2)  ]  .



    5.7 Switching Between Biological Disease Modifying Antirheumatic Drugs (DMARDs)



  Care should be taken when switching from one biologic product to another biologic product since overlapping biological activity may further increase the risk of infection.



    5.8 Hematologic Cytopenias



  There have been post-marketing reports of pancytopenia, leukopenia, neutropenia, aplastic anemia, and thrombocytopenia in patients receiving TNF-blockers. In clinical studies, cases of pancytopenia, leukopenia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia have also occurred in SIMPONI ARIA-treated patients. Caution should be exercised when using TNF-blockers, including SIMPONI ARIA, in patients who have or have had significant cytopenias.



    5.9 Vaccinations/Therapeutic Infectious Agents



    Live Vaccines    



  Patients treated with SIMPONI ARIA may receive vaccinations, except for live vaccines. In patients receiving anti-TNF therapy, limited data are available on the response to live vaccination, or on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines. Use of live vaccines could result in clinical infections, including disseminated infections.  



     Therapeutic Infectious Agents    



  Other uses of therapeutic infectious agents such as live attenuated bacteria (e.g., BCG bladder instillation for the treatment of cancer) could result in clinical infections, including disseminated infections. It is recommended that therapeutic infectious agents not be given concurrently with SIMPONI ARIA.  



    5.10 Hypersensitivity Reactions



  In post-marketing experience, serious systemic hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylactic reaction) have been reported following administration of the subcutaneous formulation of golimumab. Some of these reactions occurred after the first administration of golimumab. If an anaphylactic or other serious allergic reaction occurs, administration of SIMPONI ARIA should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy instituted.
