

    BOXED WARNING: WARNING: SERIOUS INFECTIONS AND MALIGNANCY

    WARNING: SERIOUS INFECTIONS AND MALIGNANCY  

  EXCERPT:   WARNING:  SERIOUS INFECTIONS AND MALIGNANCY



   See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning.  



 *  Serious infections leading to hospitalization or death including tuberculosis (TB), bacterial sepsis, invasive fungal (such as histoplasmosis), and other opportunistic infections have occurred in patients receiving SIMPONI ARIA (5.1). 
 *  Discontinue SIMPONI ARIA if a patient develops a serious infection or sepsis (5.1). 
 *  Perform test for latent TB; if positive, start treatment for TB prior to starting SIMPONI ARIA (5.1). 
 *  Monitor all patients for active TB during treatment, even if initial latent TB test is negative (5.1). 
 *  Lymphoma and other malignancies, some fatal, have been reported in children and adolescent patients treated with TNF blockers, of which SIMPONI ARIA is a member (5.2). 
    
 

    SERIOUS INFECTIONS  



   Patients treated with SIMPONI ARIA are at increased risk for developing serious infections that may lead to hospitalization or death   [see   Warnings and Precautions (5.1)  ]  .  Most patients who developed these infections were taking concomitant immunosuppressants such as methotrexate or corticosteroids.  



   Discontinue SIMPONI ARIA if a patient develops a serious infection.  



   Reported infections with TNF-blockers, of which SIMPONI ARIA is a member, include:  



 *  Active tuberculosis, including reactivation of latent tuberculosis. Patients with tuberculosis have frequently presented with disseminated or extrapulmonary disease. Test patients for latent tuberculosis before SIMPONI ARIA use and during therapy. Initiate treatment for latent tuberculosis prior to SIMPONI ARIA use. 
 *  Invasive fungal infections, including histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, candidiasis, aspergillosis, blastomycosis and pneumocystosis. Patients with histoplasmosis or other invasive fungal infections may present with disseminated, rather than localized, disease. Antigen and antibody testing for histoplasmosis may be negative in some patients with active infection. Consider empiric anti-fungal therapy in patients at risk for invasive fungal infections who develop severe systemic illness. 
 *  Bacterial, viral, and other infections due to opportunistic pathogens, including Legionella and Listeria. 
      Consider the risks and benefits of treatment with SIMPONI ARIA prior to initiating therapy in patients with chronic or recurrent infection.  
 

   Monitor patients closely for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during and after treatment with SIMPONI ARIA, including the possible development of tuberculosis in patients who tested negative for latent tuberculosis infection prior to initiating therapy   [see   Warnings and Precautions (5.1)  ]  .  



     MALIGNANCY  



   Lymphoma and other malignancies, some fatal, have been reported in children and adolescent patients treated with TNF blockers, of which SIMPONI ARIA is a member   [see   Warnings and Precautions (5.2)  ]  .  
