    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Hemorrhage: Monitor for bleeding (  5.1  ). 
 *  Infections: Monitor patients for fever and infections and evaluate promptly (  5.2  ). 
 *  Cytopenias: Check complete blood counts monthly (  5.3  ). 
 *  Atrial Fibrillation: Monitor patients for atrial fibrillation (  5.4  ). 
 *  Second Primary Malignancies: Other malignancies have occurred in patients, including skin cancers, and other carcinomas (  5.5  ). 
 *  Tumor Lysis Syndrome (TLS): Monitor patients at risk for TLS (e.g. high tumor burden) (  5.6  ). 
 *  Embryo-Fetal Toxicity: Can cause fetal harm. Advise women of the potential risk to a fetus and to avoid pregnancy while taking the drug (  5.7  ). 
    
 

   5.1 Hemorrhage



   Fatal bleeding events have occurred in patients treated with IMBRUVICA. Grade 3 or higher bleeding events (subdural hematoma, gastrointestinal bleeding, hematuria and post procedural hemorrhage) have occurred in up to 6% of patients. Bleeding events of any grade, including bruising and petechiae, occurred in approximately half of patients treated with IMBRUVICA.  



 The mechanism for the bleeding events is not well understood.



 IMBRUVICA may increase the risk of hemorrhage in patients receiving antiplatelet or anticoagulant therapies.



 Consider the benefit-risk of withholding IMBRUVICA for at least 3 to 7 days pre and post-surgery depending upon the type of surgery and the risk of bleeding [see  Clinical Studies (14)  ].  



    5.2 Infections



  Fatal and non-fatal infections have occurred with IMBRUVICA therapy. Grade 3 or greater infections occurred in 14% to 26% of patients. [See  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) have occurred in patients treated with IMBRUVICA. Monitor patients for fever and infections and evaluate promptly.



    5.3 Cytopenias



  Treatment-emergent Grade 3 or 4 cytopenias including neutropenia (range, 19 to 29%), thrombocytopenia (range, 5 to 17%), and anemia (range, 0 to 9%) occurred in patients treated with IMBRUVICA.



 Monitor complete blood counts monthly.



    5.4 Atrial Fibrillation



  Atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter (range, 6 to 9%) have occurred in patients treated with IMBRUVICA, particularly in patients with cardiac risk factors, acute infections, and a previous history of atrial fibrillation. Periodically monitor patients clinically for atrial fibrillation. Patients who develop arrhythmic symptoms (e.g., palpitations, lightheadedness) or new onset dyspnea should have an ECG performed. If atrial fibrillation persists, consider the risks and benefits of IMBRUVICA treatment and dose modification [see  Dosage and Administration (2.3)  ]  .



    5.5 Second Primary Malignancies



  Other malignancies (range, 5 to 14%) including non-skin carcinomas (range, 1 to 3%) have occurred in patients treated with IMBRUVICA. The most frequent second primary malignancy was non-melanoma skin cancer (range, 4 to 11 %).



    5.6 Tumor Lysis Syndrome



   Tumor lysis syndrome has been reported with IMBRUVICA therapy. Monitor patients closely and take appropriate precautions in patients at risk for tumor lysis syndrome (e.g. high tumor burden).  



    5.7 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity



  Based on findings in animals, IMBRUVICA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Ibrutinib caused malformations in rats at exposures 14 times those reported in patients with MCL and 20 times those reported in patients with CLL or WM, receiving the ibrutinib dose of 560 mg per day and 420 mg per day, respectively. Reduced fetal weights were observed at lower exposures. Advise women to avoid becoming pregnant while taking IMBRUVICA. If this drug is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.1)  ]  .
