    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Severe cutaneous reactions: Monitor patients for the development of severe cutaneous reactions and discontinue Zydelig. (  5.5  ) 
 *  Anaphylaxis: Monitor patients for anaphylaxis and discontinue Zydelig. (  5.6  ) 
 *  Neutropenia: monitor blood counts. (  5.7  ) 
 *  Embryo-fetal toxicity: may cause fetal harm. Advise women of potential risk to a fetus and to avoid pregnancy while taking Zydelig. (  5.8  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Hepatotoxicity



  Fatal and/or serious hepatotoxicity occurred in 14% of patients treated with Zydelig. Elevations in ALT or AST greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal have occurred [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ].  These findings were generally observed within the first 12 weeks of treatment and were reversible with dose interruption. After resumption of treatment at a lower dose, 26% of patients had recurrence of ALT and AST elevations. Discontinue Zydelig for recurrent hepatotoxicity.



 Avoid concurrent use of Zydelig with other drugs that may cause liver toxicity.



 Monitor ALT and AST in all patients every 2 weeks for the first 3 months of treatment, every 4 weeks for the next 3 months, then every 1 to 3 months thereafter. Monitor weekly for liver toxicity if the ALT or AST rises above 3 times the upper limit of normal until resolved. Withhold Zydelig if the ALT or AST is greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal, and continue to monitor AST, ALT and total bilirubin weekly until the abnormality is resolved [see  Dosage and Administration (2.2)  ].  



    5.2 Severe Diarrhea or Colitis



  Severe diarrhea or colitis (Grade 3 or higher) occurred in 14% of Zydelig-treated patients across clinical trials [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ].  Diarrhea can occur at any time. Avoid concurrent use of Zydelig and other drugs that cause diarrhea. Diarrhea due to Zydelig responds poorly to antimotility agents. Median time to resolution ranged between 1 week and 1 month across trials, following interruption of Zydelig therapy and in some instances, use of corticosteroids [see  Dosage and Administration (2.2)  ].  



    5.3 Pneumonitis



  Fatal and serious pneumonitis occurred in patients treated with Zydelig. Patients taking Zydelig who present with pulmonary symptoms such as cough, dyspnea, hypoxia, interstitial infiltrates on a radiologic exam, or a decline by more than 5% in oxygen saturation should be evaluated for pneumonitis. If pneumonitis is suspected, interrupt Zydelig until the etiology of the pulmonary symptoms has been determined. Patients with pneumonitis thought to be caused by Zydelig have been treated with discontinuation of Zydelig and administration of corticosteroids.



    5.4 Intestinal Perforation



  Fatal and serious intestinal perforation occurred in Zydelig-treated patients. At the time of perforation, some patients had moderate to severe diarrhea. Advise patients to promptly report any new or worsening abdominal pain, chills, fever, nausea, or vomiting. Discontinue Zydelig permanently in patients who experience intestinal perforation.



    5.5 Severe Cutaneous Reactions



  One case of toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) occurred in a study of Zydelig in combination with rituximab and bendamustine. Other severe or life-threatening (Grade >=3) cutaneous reactions, including dermatitis exfoliative, rash, rash erythematous, rash generalized, rash macular, rash maculo-papular, rash papular, rash pruritic, exfoliative rash, and skin disorder, have been reported in Zydelig-treated patients. Monitor patients for the development of severe cutaneous reactions and discontinue Zydelig.



    5.6 Anaphylaxis



  Serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported in patients on Zydelig. In patients who develop serious allergic reactions, discontinue Zydelig permanently and institute appropriate supportive measures.



    5.7 Neutropenia



  Treatment-emergent Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia occurred in 31% of Zydelig-treated patients across clinical trials [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ].  Monitor blood counts at least every two weeks for the first 3 months of therapy, and at least weekly in patients while neutrophil counts are less than 1.0 Gi/L [see  Dosage and Administration (2.2)  ].  



    5.8 Embryo-fetal Toxicity



  Based on findings in animals, Zydelig may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Idelalisib is teratogenic in rats, at systemic exposures 12 times those reported in patients at the recommended dose of 150 mg twice daily. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.1)  ].  



 Advise females of reproductive potential to avoid becoming pregnant while taking Zydelig. If contraceptive methods are being considered, use effective contraception during treatment, and for at least 1 month after the last dose of Zydelig [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.6)  ].  
