    5     WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *   Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis who are treated with atypical antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death and cerebrovascular-related adverse events, including stroke. (  5.1  ) 
 *   QT prolongation: Prolongs QT interval and may be associated with arrhythmia and sudden death-consider using other antipsychotics first. Avoid use of FANAPT in combination with other drugs that are known to prolong QTc; use caution and consider dose modification when prescribing FANAPT with other drugs that inhibit FANAPT metabolism. Monitor serum potassium and magnesium in patients at risk for electrolyte disturbances. (  1  ,  5.2  ,  7.1  ,  7.3  ,  12.3  ) 
 *   Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome: Manage with immediate discontinuation of drug and close monitoring. (  5.3  ) 
 *   Tardive dyskinesia: Discontinue if clinically appropriate. (  5.4  ) 
 *  *   Hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus: Monitor patients for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Monitor glucose regularly in patients at risk for diabetes. (  5.5  ) 
 *   Dyslipidemia: Undesirable alterations have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. (  5.5  ) 
 *   Weight Gain: Weight gain has been reported. Monitor weight. (  5.5  ) 
    Metabolic Changes: Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and weight gain. (  5.5  ) 
 *   Seizures: Use cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or with conditions that lower seizure threshold. (  5.6  ) 
 *   Orthostatic hypotension: Dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope can occur with standing. (  5.7  ) 
 *   Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis have been reported with antipsychotics. Patients with a pre-existing low white blood cell count (WBC) or a history of leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and should discontinue FANAPT at the first sign of a decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. (  5.8  ) 
 *   Suicide: Close supervision of high risk patients. (  5.12  ) 
 *   Priapism: Cases have been reported in association with FANAPT treatment. (  5.13  ) 
 *   Potential for cognitive and motor impairment: Use caution when operating machinery. (  5.14  ) 
 *  See Full Prescribing Information for additional WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS.  
    
 

   5.1     Increased Risks in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis



   Increased Mortality  



  Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with atypical antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death compared to placebo.   FANAPT   is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis       [s   ee Boxed Warning   ]   .  



  Cerebrovascular Adverse Events, Including Stroke  



 In placebo-controlled trials with risperidone, aripiprazole, and olanzapine in elderly patients with dementia, there was a higher incidence of cerebrovascular adverse events (cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic attacks) including fatalities compared to placebo-treated patients. FANAPT is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis  [s   ee Boxed Warning   ]  .



    5.2     QT Prolongation



  In an open-label QTc study in patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder (n=160), FANAPT was associated with QTc prolongation of 9 msec at an iloperidone dose of 12 mg twice daily. The effect of FANAPT on the QT interval was augmented by the presence of CYP450 2D6 or 3A4 metabolic inhibition (paroxetine 20 mg once daily and ketoconazole 200 mg twice daily, respectively). Under conditions of metabolic inhibition for both 2D6 and 3A4, FANAPT 12 mg twice daily was associated with a mean QTcF increase from baseline of about 19 msec.



 No cases of torsade de pointes or other severe cardiac arrhythmias were observed during the pre-marketing clinical program.



 The use of FANAPT should be avoided in combination with other drugs that are known to prolong QTc including Class 1A (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) or Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic medications, antipsychotic medications (e.g., chlorpromazine, thioridazine), antibiotics (e.g., gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin), or any other class of medications known to prolong the QTc interval (e.g., pentamidine, levomethadyl acetate, methadone). FANAPT should also be avoided in patients with congenital long QT syndrome and in patients with a history of cardiac arrhythmias.



 Certain circumstances may increase the risk of torsade de pointes and/or sudden death in association with the use of drugs that prolong the QTc interval, including (1) bradycardia; (2) hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia; (3) concomitant use of other drugs that prolong the QTc interval; and (4) presence of congenital prolongation of the QT interval; (5) recent acute myocardial infarction; and/or (6) uncompensated heart failure. 



 Caution is warranted when prescribing FANAPT with drugs that inhibit FANAPT metabolism [see Drug Interaction   s   (7.1)]  , and in patients with reduced activity of CYP2D6 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]  .



 It is recommended that patients being considered for FANAPT treatment who are at risk for significant electrolyte disturbances have baseline serum potassium and magnesium measurements with periodic monitoring. Hypokalemia (and/or hypomagnesemia) may increase the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmia. FANAPT should be avoided in patients with histories of significant cardiovascular illness, e.g., QT prolongation, recent acute myocardial infarction, uncompensated heart failure, or cardiac arrhythmia. FANAPT should be discontinued in patients who are found to have persistent QTc measurements >500 msec.



 If patients taking FANAPT experience symptoms that could indicate the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias, e.g., dizziness, palpitations, or syncope, the prescriber should initiate further evaluation, including cardiac monitoring. 



    5.3     Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS)



  A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with administration of antipsychotic drugs, including FANAPT. Clinical manifestations include hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status (including catatonic signs) and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac dysrhythmia). Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria (rhabdomyolysis), and acute renal failure.



 The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases in which the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever, and primary central nervous system (CNS) pathology.



 The management of this syndrome should include: (1) immediate discontinuation of the antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy, (2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring, and (3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for NMS.



 If a patient requires antipsychotic drug treatment after recovery from NMS, the potential reintroduction of drug therapy should be carefully considered. The patient should be carefully monitored, since recurrences of NMS have been reported.



    5.4     Tardive Dyskinesia



  Tardive dyskinesia is a syndrome consisting of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements, which may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to rely on prevalence estimates to predict, at the inception of antipsychotic treatment, which patients are likely to develop the syndrome. Whether antipsychotic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown.



 The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia and the likelihood that it will become irreversible are believed to increase as the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose of antipsychotic administered increases. However, the syndrome can develop, although much less commonly, after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses.



 There is no known treatment for established cases of tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic treatment is withdrawn. Antipsychotic treatment itself, however, may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and thereby may possibly mask the underlying process. The effect that symptomatic suppression has upon the long-term course of the syndrome is unknown.



 Given these considerations, FANAPT should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that (1) is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs, and (2) for whom alternative, equally effective, but potentially less harmful treatments are not available or appropriate. In patients who do require chronic treatment, the smallest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought. The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically.



 If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient on FANAPT, drug discontinuation should be considered. However, some patients may require treatment with FANAPT despite the presence of the syndrome.



    5.5     Metabolic Changes



  Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and body weight gain [see Patient Counseling Information (17.3)]  . While all atypical antipsychotic drugs have been shown to produce some metabolic changes, each drug in the class has its own specific risk profile.



  Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus  



 Hyperglycemia, in some cases extreme and associated with ketoacidosis or hyperosmolar coma or death, has been reported in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics including FANAPT. Assessment of the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and glucose abnormalities is complicated by the possibility of an increased background risk of diabetes mellitus in patients with schizophrenia and the increasing incidence of diabetes mellitus in the general population. Given these confounders, the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and hyperglycemia-related adverse events is not completely understood. However, epidemiological studies suggest an increased risk of treatment-emergent hyperglycemia-related adverse events in patients treated with the atypical antipsychotics included in these studies. Because FANAPT was not marketed at the time these studies were performed, it is not known if FANAPT is associated with this increased risk.



 Patients with an established diagnosis of diabetes mellitus who are started on atypical antipsychotics should be monitored regularly for worsening of glucose control. Patients with risk factors for diabetes mellitus (e.g., obesity, family history of diabetes) who are starting treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing at the beginning of treatment and periodically during treatment. Any patient treated with atypical antipsychotics should be monitored for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Patients who develop symptoms of hyperglycemia during treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing. In some cases, hyperglycemia has resolved when the atypical antipsychotic was discontinued; however, some patients required continuation of antidiabetic treatment despite discontinuation of the suspect drug.



 Data from a 4-week, fixed-dose study in adult subjects with schizophrenia, in which fasting blood samples were drawn, are presented in Table 1.



 Table 1: Change in Fasting Glucose 
                                    FANAPT           
                   Placebo          24 mg/day        
                   Mean Change from Baseline(mg/dL)     
                   n=114            n=228            
  Serum Glucose Change from Baseline    -0.5             6.6               
                   Proportion of Patients with Shifts     
  Serum Glucose Normal to High    2.5 %            10.7 %            
 (<100 mg/dL to >=126 mg/dL)  (2/80)           (18/169)          
         Pooled analyses of glucose data from clinical studies including longer term trials are shown in Table 2.
 

 Table 2: Change in Glucose 
  Mean Change from Baseline (mg/dL)     
                   3-6 months       6-12 months      >12 months       
 FANAPT 10-16 mg/day  1.8 (N=773)      5.4 (N=723)      5.4 (N=425)       
 FANAPT 20-24 mg/day  -3.6 (N=34)      -9.0 (N=31)      -18.0 (N=20)      
           Dyslipidemia  
 

 Undesirable alterations in lipids have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics.



 Data from a placebo-controlled, 4-week, fixed-dose study, in which fasting blood samples were drawn, in adult subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 3.



 Table 3: Change in Fasting Lipids 
                                    FANAPT           
                   Placebo          24 mg/day        
                   Mean Change from Baseline (mg/dL)     
  Cholesterol      n=114            n=228            
  Change from baseline    -2.17            8.18              
  LDL              n=109            n=217            
  Change from baseline    -1.41            9.03              
  HDL              n=114            n=228            
  Change from baseline    -3.35            0.55              
  Triglycerides     n=114            n=228            
  Change from baseline    16.47            -0.83             
                   Proportion of Patients with Shifts     
  Cholesterol                                        
  Normal to High    1.4%             3.6%              
  (<200 mg/dL to >=240 mg/dL)    (1/72)           (5/141)           
  LDL                                                
  Normal to High    2.4%             1.1%              
  (<100 mg/dL to >=160 mg/dL)    (1/42)           (1/90)            
  HDL                                                
  Normal to Low    23.8%            12.1%             
  ( >=40 mg/dL to <40 mg/dL)    (19/80)          (20/166)          
  Triglycerides                                       
  Normal to High    8.3%             10.1%             
  (<150 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL)    (6/72)           (15/148)          
         Pooled analyses of cholesterol and triglyceride data from clinical studies including longer term trials are shown in Tables 4 and 5.
 

 Table 4: Change in Cholesterol 
  Mean Change from Baseline (mg/dL)     
                   3-6 months       6-12 months      >12 months       
 FANAPT 10-16 mg/day  -3.9 (N=783)     -3.9 (N=726)     -7.7 (N=428)      
 FANAPT 20-24 mg/day  -19.4 (N=34)     -23.2 (N=31)     -19.4 (N=20)      
         Table 5: Change in Triglycerides 
  Mean Change from Baseline (mg/dL)     
                   3-6 months       6-12 months      >12 months       
 FANAPT 10-16 mg/day  -8.9 (N=783)     -8.9 (N=726)     -17.7 (N=428)     
 FANAPT 20-24 mg/day  -26.6 (N=34)     -35.4 (N=31)     -17.7 (N=20)      
           Weight Gain  
 

 Weight gain has been observed with atypical antipsychotic use. Clinical monitoring of weight is recommended.



 Across all short- and long-term studies, the overall mean change from baseline at endpoint was 2.1 kg.



 Changes in body weight (kg) and the proportion of subjects with >=7% gain in body weight from 4 placebo-controlled, 4- or 6-week, fixed- or flexible-dose studies in adult subjects are presented in Table 6.



 Table 6: Change in Body Weight 
                                    FANAPT           FANAPT           
                   Placebo          10-16 mg/day     20-24 mg/day     
                  n=576            n=481            n=391             
  Weight (kg)                                                         
  Change from Baseline    -0.1             2.0              2.7               
  Weight Gain                                                         
  >=7% increase from Baseline    4%               12%              18%               
             5.6     Seizures
 

  In short-term placebo-controlled trials (4- to 6-weeks), seizures occurred in 0.1% (1/1344) of patients treated with FANAPT compared to 0.3% (2/587) on placebo. As with other antipsychotics, FANAPT should be used cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or with conditions that potentially lower the seizure threshold, e.g., Alzheimer's dementia. Conditions that lower the seizure threshold may be more prevalent in a population of 65 years or older. 



    5.7     Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope



  FANAPT can induce orthostatic hypotension associated with dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. This reflects its alpha1-adrenergic antagonist properties. In double-blind placebo-controlled short-term studies, where the dose was increased slowly, as recommended above, syncope was reported in 0.4% (5/1344) of patients treated with FANAPT, compared with 0.2% (1/587) on placebo. Orthostatic hypotension was reported in 5% of patients given 20 to 24 mg/day, 3% of patients given 10 to 16 mg/day, and 1% of patients given placebo. More rapid titration would be expected to increase the rate of orthostatic hypotension and syncope. 



 FANAPT should be used with caution in patients with known cardiovascular disease (e.g., heart failure, history of myocardial infarction, ischemia, or conduction abnormalities), cerebrovascular disease, or conditions that predispose the patient to hypotension (dehydration, hypovolemia, and treatment with antihypertensive medications). Monitoring of orthostatic vital signs should be considered in patients who are vulnerable to hypotension.



    5.8     Leukopenia, Neutropenia and Agranulocytosis



  In clinical trial and postmarketing experience, events of leukopenia/neutropenia have been reported temporally related to antipsychotic agents. Agranulocytosis (including fatal cases) has also been reported.



 Possible risk factors for leukopenia/neutropenia include preexisting low white blood cell count (WBC) and history of drug induced leukopenia/neutropenia. Patients with a pre-existing low WBC or a history of drug induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and should discontinue FANAPT at the first sign of a decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors.



 Patients with neutropenia should be carefully monitored for fever or other symptoms or signs of infection and treated promptly if such symptoms or signs occur. Patients with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count <1000/mm  3  ) should discontinue FANAPT and have their WBC followed until recovery.



    5.9     Hyperprolactinemia



  As with other drugs that antagonize dopamine D2 receptors, FANAPT elevates prolactin levels. 



 Hyperprolactinemia may suppress hypothalamic GnRH, resulting in reduced pituitary gonadotropin secretion. This, in turn, may inhibit reproductive function by impairing gonadalsteroidogenesis in both female and male patients. Galactorrhea, amenorrhea, gynecomastia, and impotence have been reported with prolactin-elevating compounds. Long-standing hyperprolactinemia when associated with hypogonadism may lead to decreased bone density in both female and male patients.



 Tissue culture experiments indicate that approximately one-third of human breast cancers are prolactin-dependent in vitro  , a factor of potential importance if the prescription of these drugs is contemplated in a patient with previously detected breast cancer. Mammary gland proliferative changes and increases in serum prolactin were seen in mice and rats treated with FANAPT  [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]  . Neither clinical studies nor epidemiologic studies conducted to date have shown an association between chronic administration of this class of drugs and tumorigenesis in humans; the available evidence is considered too limited to be conclusive at this time.



 In a short-term placebo-controlled trial (4-weeks), the mean change from baseline to endpoint in plasma prolactin levels for the FANAPT 24 mg/day-treated group was an increase of 2.6 ng/mL compared to a decrease of 6.3 ng/mL in the placebo-group. In this trial, elevated plasma prolactin levels were observed in 26% of adults treated with FANAPT compared to 12% in the placebo-group. In the short-term trials, FANAPT was associated with modest levels of prolactin elevation compared to greater prolactin elevations observed with some other antipsychotic agents. In pooled analysis from clinical studies including longer term trials, in 3210 adults treated with iloperidone, gynecomastia was reported in 2 male subjects (0.1%) compared to 0% in placebo-treated patients, and galactorrhea was reported in 8 female subjects (0.2%) compared to 3 female subjects (0.5%) in placebo-treated patients.



    5.10     Body Temperature Regulation



  Disruption of the body's ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to antipsychotic agents. Appropriate care is advised when prescribing FANAPT for patients who will be experiencing conditions which may contribute to an elevation in core body temperature, e.g., exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant medication with anticholinergic activity, or being subject to dehydration.



    5.11     Dysphagia



  Esophageal dysmotility and aspiration have been associated with antipsychotic drug use. Aspiration pneumonia is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in elderly patients, in particular those with advanced Alzheimer's dementia. FANAPT and other antipsychotic drugs should be used cautiously in patients at risk for aspiration pneumonia [see Boxed Warning]  .



    5.12     Suicide



  The possibility of a suicide attempt is inherent in psychotic illness, and close supervision of high-risk patients should accompany drug therapy. Prescriptions for FANAPT should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management in order to reduce the risk of overdose.



    5.13     Priapism



  Three cases of priapism were reported in the premarketing FANAPT program. Drugs with alpha-adrenergic blocking effects have been reported to induce priapism. FANAPT shares this pharmacologic activity. Severe priapism may require surgical intervention.



    5.14     Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment



  FANAPT, like other antipsychotics, has the potential to impair judgment, thinking or motor skills. In short-term, placebo-controlled trials, somnolence (including sedation) was reported in 11.9% (104/874) of adult patients treated with FANAPT     at doses of 10 mg/day or greater versus 5.3% (31/587) treated with placebo. Patients should be cautioned about operating hazardous machinery, including automobiles, until they are reasonably certain that therapy with FANAPT does not affect them adversely.
