    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



  EXCERPT:    For All Indications:  



 *  The potency Units of XEOMIN are not interchangeable with other preparations of botulinum toxin products. Therefore, Units of biological activity of XEOMIN cannot be compared to or converted into Units of any other botulinum toxin products (  5.2  ). 
 *  Immediate medical attention may be required in cases of respiratory, speech or swallowing difficulties (  5.1  ,  5.4  ). 
 *  Use with caution in patients with compromised respiratory function or dysphagia (  5.4  ). 
 *  Concomitant neuromuscular disorders may exacerbate clinical effects of treatment (  5.5  ). 
     Cervical Dystonia (  5.4  ):  
 

 *  Patients with smaller neck muscle mass and patients who require bilateral injections into the sternocleidomastoid muscles are at greater risk of dysphagia. 
 *  Limiting the dose injected into the sternocleidomastoid muscle may decrease the occurrence of dysphagia. 
     Blepharospasm (  5.6  ):  
 

 *  Corneal exposure and ulceration 
 *  Injection of XEOMIN into the orbicularis oculi muscle may lead to reduced blinking and corneal exposure with possible ulceration or perforation. 
 *  Lower lid injections should not be repeated if diplopia occurred with previous botulinum toxin injections. 
     Glabellar Lines (  5.7  ):  
 

 *  Risk of ptosis (  5.7  ). 
    
 

   5.1 Spread of Toxin Effect



  Postmarketing safety data from XEOMIN and other approved botulinum toxins suggest that botulinum toxin effects may, in some cases, be observed beyond the site of local injection. The symptoms are consistent with the mechanism of action of botulinum toxin and may include asthenia, generalized muscle weakness, diplopia, blurred vision, ptosis, dysphagia, dysphonia, dysarthria, urinary incontinence, and breathing difficulties. These symptoms have been reported hours to weeks after injection. Swallowing and breathing difficulties can be life threatening and there have been reports of death related to the spread of toxin effects. The risk of symptoms is probably greatest in children treated for spasticity but symptoms can occur in adults treated for spasticity and other conditions, and particularly in those patients who have underlying conditions that would predispose them to these symptoms. In unapproved uses, including spasticity in children and adults, and in approved indications, symptoms consistent with spread of toxin effect have been reported at doses comparable to or lower than doses used to treat cervical dystonia.



 Patients or caregivers should be advised to seek immediate medical care if swallowing, speech, or respiratory disorders occur.



    5.2 Lack of Interchangeability between Botulinum Toxin Products



  The potency Units of XEOMIN are specific to the preparation and assay method utilized. They are not interchangeable with the other preparations of botulinum toxin products and, therefore, Units of biological activity of XEOMIN cannot be compared to or converted into Units of any other botulinum toxin products assessed with any other specific assay method [see  Description (11)  ]  .



    5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions



  Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported with botulinum toxin products (anaphylaxis, serum sickness, urticaria, soft tissue edema, and dyspnea). If serious and/or immediate hypersensitivity reactions occur further injection of XEOMIN should be discontinued and appropriate medical therapy immediately instituted.



    5.4 Dysphagia and Breathing Difficulties in Treatment of Cervical Dystonia



  Treatment with XEOMIN and other botulinum toxin products can result in swallowing or breathing difficulties. Patients with pre-existing swallowing or breathing difficulties may be more susceptible to these complications. In most cases, this is a consequence of weakening of muscles in the area of injection that are involved in breathing or swallowing. When distant effects occur, additional respiratory muscles may be involved [See  Warnings and Precautions (5.1)  ]  .



 Deaths as a complication of severe dysphagia have been reported after treatment with botulinum toxin. Dysphagia may persist for several months, and require use of a feeding tube to maintain adequate nutrition and hydration. Aspiration may result from severe dysphagia and is a particular risk when treating patients in whom swallowing or respiratory function is already compromised.



 Treatment of cervical dystonia with botulinum toxins may weaken neck muscles that serve as accessory muscles of ventilation. This may result in critical loss of breathing capacity in patients with respiratory disorders who may have become dependent upon these accessory muscles. There have been post-marketing reports of serious breathing difficulties, including respiratory failure, in patients with cervical dystonia treated with botulinum toxin products.



 Patients with smaller neck muscle mass and patients who require bilateral injections into the sternocleidomastoid muscles have been reported to be at greater risk of dysphagia. In general, limiting the dose injected into the sternocleidomastoid muscle may decrease the occurrence of dysphagia.



 Patients treated with botulinum toxin may require immediate medical attention should they develop problems with swallowing, speech or respiratory disorders. These reactions can occur within hours to weeks after injection with botulinum toxin [See  Warnings and Precautions (5.1)  and  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  .



    5.5 Pre-existing Neuromuscular Disorders and other Special Populations



  Individuals with peripheral motor neuropathic diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or neuromuscular junctional disorders (e.g., myasthenia gravis or Lambert-Eaton syndrome) should be monitored particularly closely when given botulinum toxin. Patients with neuromuscular disorders may be at increased risk of clinically significant effects including severe dysphagia and respiratory compromise from typical doses of XEOMIN [See  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  .



    5.6 Corneal Exposure, Corneal Ulceration, and Ectropion in Patients Treated with XEOMIN for Blepharospasm



  Reduced blinking from injection of botulinum toxin products in the orbicularis muscle can lead to corneal exposure, persistent epithelial defect and corneal ulceration, especially in patients with VII nerve disorders. Careful testing of corneal sensation in eyes previously operated upon, avoidance of injection into the lower lid area to avoid ectropion, and vigorous treatment of any epithelial defect should be employed. This may require protective drops, ointment, therapeutic soft contact lenses, or closure of the eye by patching or other means. Because of its anticholinergic effects, XEOMIN should be used with caution in patients at risk of developing narrow angle glaucoma. To prevent ectropion, botulinum toxin products should not be injected into the medial lower eyelid area.



 Ecchymosis easily occurs in the soft tissues of the eyelid. Immediate gentle pressure at the injection site can limit that risk.



    5.7 Risk of Ptosis in Patients Treated with XEOMIN for Glabellar Lines



  Do not exceed the recommended dosage and frequency of administration of XEOMIN.



 In order to reduce the complication of ptosis the following steps should be taken:



 *  Avoid injection near the levator palpebrae superioris, particularly in patients with larger brow depressor complexes. 
 *  Corrugator injections should be placed at least 1 cm above the bony supraorbital ridge. 
       5.8 Human Albumin and Transmission of Viral Diseases
 

  This product contains albumin, a derivative of human blood. Based on effective donor screening and product manufacturing processes, it carries an extremely remote risk for transmission of viral diseases. A theoretical risk for transmission of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is also considered extremely remote. No cases of transmission of viral diseases or CJD have ever been reported for albumin.
