    6 ADVERSE REACTIONS

  EXCERPT:   Serious hypersensitivity reactions have been reported following AdreView administration. The most common adverse reactions, dizziness, rash, pruritis, flushing, headache, and injection site hemorrhage occurred in < 1.3% of patients. (  6.1  ,  6.2  )



   To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GE Healthcare at 1-800-654-0118 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch.  



 

  6.1 Clinical Study Experience

  Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice.



 During clinical development 1346 patients were exposed to AdreView, 251 patients with known or suspected pheochromocytoma or neuroblastoma, 985 patients with heart failure, and 110 control patients. All patients were monitored for adverse reactions over a 24 hour period following AdreView administration.



     Pheochromocytoma and Neuroblastoma  



 Serious adverse reactions were not observed in the AdreView clinical study. Adverse reactions were all mild to moderate in severity and were predominantly isolated occurrences (<= 2 patients) of one of the following reactions: dizziness, rash, pruritus, flushing or injection site hemorrhage.



     Congestive Heart Failure  



 No serious adverse reactions to AdreView were observed in clinical studies. Adverse reactions that occurred with a frequency > 1% were associated with the injection site (1.3%), problems such as hematoma and bruising. The other most common reactions were flushing (0.3%) and headache (0.4%). The adverse reactions were predominantly of mild to moderate intensity.



   6.2 Postmarketing Experience

  Because postmarketing reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure.



 Hypersensitivity reactions have uncommonly been reported during the postmarketing use of AdreView [  see  Warnings and Precautions (5.1)    ].
