

    BOXED WARNING: WARNING: IMMUNE-MEDIATED ADVERSE REACTIONS

  WARNING: IMMUNE-MEDIATED ADVERSE REACTIONS

    YERVOY can result in severe and fatal immune-mediated adverse reactions due to T-cell activation and proliferation. These immune-mediated reactions may involve any organ system; however, the most common severe immune-mediated adverse reactions are enterocolitis, hepatitis, dermatitis (including toxic epidermal necrolysis), neuropathy, and endocrinopathy. The majority of these immune-mediated reactions initially manifested during treatment; however, a minority occurred weeks to months after discontinuation of YERVOY.  



   Permanently discontinue YERVOY and initiate systemic high-dose corticosteroid therapy for severe immune-mediated reactions.   [See   Dosage and Administration (2.2)  .]    



   Assess patients for signs and symptoms of enterocolitis, dermatitis, neuropathy, and endocrinopathy and evaluate clinical chemistries including liver function tests and thyroid function tests at baseline and before each dose.   [See   Warnings and Precautions (5.1  ,   5.2  ,   5.3  ,   5.4  ,   5.5)  .]    



   EXCERPT:   WARNING: IMMUNE-MEDIATED ADVERSE REACTIONS



   See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning.  



   YERVOY can result in severe and fatal immune-mediated adverse reactions due to T-cell activation and proliferation. These immune-mediated reactions may involve any organ system; however, the most common severe immune-mediated adverse reactions are enterocolitis, hepatitis, dermatitis (including toxic epidermal necrolysis), neuropathy, and endocrinopathy. The majority of these immune-mediated reactions initially manifested during treatment; however, a minority occurred weeks to months after discontinuation of YERVOY.  



   Permanently discontinue YERVOY and initiate systemic high-dose corticosteroid therapy for severe immune-mediated reactions.   (2.2)    



   Assess patients for signs and symptoms of enterocolitis, dermatitis, neuropathy, and endocrinopathy and evaluate clinical chemistries including liver function tests and thyroid function tests at baseline and before each dose.   (5.1  ,   5.2  ,   5.3  ,   5.4  ,   5.5)    
