    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Elevated transaminases (ALT or AST): Transaminases (ALT and AST) should be assessed prior to initiating KALYDECO, every 3 months during the first year of treatment, and annually thereafter. In patients with a history of transaminase elevations, more frequent monitoring of liver function tests should be considered. Patients who develop increased transaminase levels should be closely monitored until the abnormalities resolve. Dosing should be interrupted in patients with ALT or AST of greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Following resolution of transaminase elevations, consider the benefits and risks of resuming KALYDECO dosing. (  5.1  ,  6  ) 
 *  Use with CYP3A inducers: Concomitant use with strong CYP3A inducers (e.g., rifampin, St. John's wort) substantially decreases exposure of ivacaftor, which may diminish effectiveness. Therefore, co-administration is not recommended. (  5.2  ,  7.2  ,  12.3  ) 
 *  Cataracts: Non-congenital lens opacities/cataracts have been reported in pediatric patients treated with KALYDECO. Baseline and follow-up examinations are recommended in pediatric patients initiating KALYDECO treatment. (  5.3  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Transaminase (ALT or AST) Elevations



   Elevated transaminases have been reported in patients with CF receiving KALYDECO. It is recommended that ALT and AST be assessed prior to initiating KALYDECO, every 3 months during the first year of treatment, and annually thereafter. For patients with a history of transaminase elevations, more frequent monitoring of liver function tests should be considered. Patients who develop increased transaminase levels should be closely monitored until the abnormalities resolve. Dosing should be interrupted in patients with ALT or AST of greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Following resolution of transaminase elevations, consider the benefits and risks of resuming KALYDECO dosing [see   Adverse Reactions (6)  and  Use in Specific Populations (8.6)    ] .    



    5.2 Concomitant Use with CYP3A Inducers



  Use of KALYDECO with strong CYP3A inducers, such as rifampin, substantially decreases the exposure of ivacaftor, which may reduce the therapeutic effectiveness of KALYDECO. Therefore, co-administration of KALYDECO with strong CYP3A inducers (e.g., rifampin, St. John's wort) is not recommended [ see  Drug Interactions (7.2)  and  Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)    ].



    5.3 Cataracts



   Cases of non-congenital lens opacities/cataracts have been reported in pediatric patients treated with KALYDECO. Although other risk factors were present in some cases (such as corticosteroid use and/or exposure to radiation), a possible risk attributable to KALYDECO cannot be excluded. Baseline and follow-up ophthalmological examinations are recommended in pediatric patients initiating KALYDECO treatment.  
